It is true that the onus of proving the facts essential to the establishment of the charge against an accused lies upon the prosecution and the evidence must be such as to exclude every reasonable doubt about the guilt of the accused.
An accused cannot be convicted of an offence on the basis of conjectures or suspicions. 
If a reasonable doubt arises in the mind of the Court after taking into consideration the entire material before it regarding the complicity of the accused the benefit of such doubt should be given to the accused but the reasonable doubt should be a real and substantial one and a 'well founded actual doubt arising out of the evidence existing after consideration of all the evidence'. 
"Hence a mere whim or a surmise or suspicion furnishes an insufficient foundation upon which to raise a reasonable doubt, and so a vague conjecture, whimsical or vague doubt, a capricious and speculative doubt, an arbitrary, imaginary, fanciful, uncertain chimerical, trivial, indefinite or a mere possible doubt is not a reasonable doubt.
Neither is a desire for more evidence of guilt, a capricious doubt or misgiving suggested by an ingenious counsel or arising from a merciful disposition or kindly feeling towards a prisoner, or from sympathy for him or his family" (See Woodroffe & Ameer Ali's Law of Evidence, 13th Edn. Vol.I pp. 203-204).
It is well known that persons who are goldsmiths by profession are able to find out whether a piece of metal is gold or not by the colour of the streak produced by rubbing it on a touch-stone used by them even though their assessment of its purity may not be exact.
It may not be a scientific way of proving that the metallic bars were gold bars. 
Under section 123 of the Customs Act, in such circumstances, the burden of proving that they were not smuggled goods would be on the respondent from whose possession they were seized.
Section 97(1) of the Amending Act reads thus:-  Any amendment made, or any provision inserted in the principal Act by a State Legislature or a High Court before the commencement of this Act shall, except in so far as such amendment or provision is consistent with the provisions of the principal Act as amended by this Act, stand repealed.
The above provision is however subject to sub-section (2) of section 97 of the Amending Act which provides that notwithstanding that the provisions of the Amending Act have come into force or the repeal under sub-section (1) of section 97 of the Amending Act has taken effect, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, the provisions in clauses (a) to (zb) of that sub-section would prevail. 
Sub-section (3) of section 97 of the Amending Act provides that save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the provisions of the principal Act, as amended by the Amending Act, shall apply to every suit proceeding, appeal or application pending at the commencement of the Amending Act or instituted or filed after such commencement, notwithstanding the fact that the right, or cause of action, in pursuance of which such suit, proceeding, appeal or application is instituted or filed, had been acquired or had accrued before such commencement.
Section 122 of the Code empowers the High Courts to make rules regulating the procedure of civil courts subject to their superintendence as well as rules regulating their own procedure. 
Section 129 of 19 the Code which is overlapping on section 122 of the Code to some extent confers power on the Chartered High Courts to make rules as to their original civil procedure. 
There are three sub-sections in section 97 of the Amending Act. 
For purposes of ready reference Rule 72 of Order 21 as it is in the Code and as it was in the State of Uttar Pradesh prior to the commencement of the Amending Act are set out below:"Order 21 Rule 72 as it is in the Code: 72. 
Decree-holder not to bid for or buy property without permission. 
- (1) No holder of a decree in execution of which property is sold shall, without the express permission of the Court, bid for or purchase the property.
Where decree-holder purchases, amount of decree may be taken as payment. 
- (2) Where a decree holder purchases with such permission, the purchase money and the amount due on the decree may, subject to the provisions of Section 73, be set off against one another, and the Court executing the decree shall enter up satisfaction of the decree in whole or in part accordingly.
(3) Where a decree-holder purchases, by himself or through another person, without such permission, the Court may, if it thinks fit, on the application of the judgment-debtor or any other person whose interests are affected by the sale, by order set aside the sale; and the costs of such application and order, and any deficiency of price which may happen on the re-sale and all expense attending it, shall be paid by the decree-holder.
Order 21 Rule 72 as it was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh prior to the commencement of the Amending Act.
Where a decree-holder purchases the property sold, the purchase money and the amount due on the decree may, subject to the provisions of section 73 be set off against one another, and the Court executing the decree shall enter up satisfaction of the decree in whole or in part accordingly. 
Its observations at pp 182-183 of the Report are as follows:
"Order 21, rule 72 21.36. With reference to Order 21, rule 72, a point was considered in the earlier Report.
A recommendation had been made in the Fourteenth Report to the effect, that a decree-holder should be allowed to purchase property unless the court has prohibited him from doing so. 
The object of the recommendation was to avoid the delay that is frequently caused when the warrant of sale is returned unexecuted in the absence of bidders.

 
An amendment carrying out this recommendation was proposed in the draft Report on the Code which had been circulated. 
Comments received thereon, however, emphasised the need for the court being aware of any proposal by the decree holder to bid. 
The earlier Commission thought that there was force in this approach and a decision was taken not to disturb the existing rule. 
We have considered this matter further, and have come to the conclusion that the approach in the earlier Report on the Code was correct. 
Hence no change is recommended.
Order 21, rule 72 23 21. 36-A. 
We have considered the more fundamental question if rule 72 should be retained at all. 
The object behind this provision is to ensure fairness in the auction. 
The decree holder, if interested in purchasing the property himself, can conceivably, keep back or discourage (or even mislead) prospective purchasers. 
Ordinarily, the fetching of a higher purchase price would be in his interest (as likely to satisfy his claim without further execution). 
But it should not be forgotten that when he is the purchaser this consideration takes leave, and he like every purchaser would like the price to be low. 
To a certain extent, he has a hand in initiating, the sale, though not so in theory. 
It is he who obtains the proclamation of sale; and, though the rules in Order 21 do not so require, it is he who is expected to assist, and even to guide, the process serving staff in various matters concerning execution e.g., affixation of the proclamation etc. He also estimates the price. For these reasons, it is better to keep the existing safeguard.
"80. No suit shall be instituted against the Government (including the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir) or against a public officer in respect of any act purporting to be done by such public officer in his official capacity, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing has been delivered to, or left at the office of- (a) in the case of a suit against the Central Government, except where it relates to a railway, a Secretary to that Government; (b) in the case of a suit against the Central Government where it relates to a railway, the General Manager of that railway; (c) in the case of a suit against the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the Secretary to that Government or any other officer authorised by that Government in this behalf; (d) in the case of a suit against any other Government, a Secretary to that Government or the Collector of the district;* * * * * and, in the case of a public officer, delivered to him or left at his office, stating the cause of action, the name, description and place of residence of the plaintiff and relief which he claims; and plaint shall contain a statement that such notice has been so delivered or left."
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council had occasion to consider the scope and effect of Section 80 C.P.C. in an almost similar situation in Bhagchand Dagadusa and ors. v. Secretary of State for India in Council & Ors.(1) 
In that case, though a notice had been issued by the plaintiffs under Section 80 C.P.C. on 26th June 1922, the suit was instituted before the expiry of the period of two months from the said date.
That contention did not find favour with the Privy Council and it was held that Section 80 is express, explicit and mandatory and it admits no implications or exceptions. 
The Judicial Committee observed: "To argue as appellants did, that the plaintiffs had a right urgently calling for a remedy, while s. 80 is mere procedure, is fallacious, for s. 80 imposes a statutory and unqualified obligation upon the Court."
This decision was subsequently followed by the Judicial Committee in Vellayan v. Madras Proince.(7) 
The dictum laid down by the Judicial Committee in Bhagchand Dagadusa v.Secretary of State for India.(3) was cited with approval and followed by a Bench of five Judges of this Court in Sawai Singhai Nirmal Chand v. Union of India.(1) 
Therein the learned Judge has expressed the view that Sec.80 is not a provision of public policy and there is nothing in the Section expressly affecting the jurisdiction of the Court to try a suit instituted before the expiry of the period prescribed therein.
"2(14) "capital asset" means property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected with his business or profession, but does not include--.
45(1) Any profits or gains arising from the transfer of a capital asset effected in the previous year shall, save as otherwise provid- ed in section be chargeable to income-tax under the head Capital gains, and shall be deemed to be the income of the previous year in which the transfer took place.
As regards the first contention, section 2(14) of the Act defines "capital asset" as property of any kind held by an assessee. 
In Traders and Mining Ltd. v. C.I.T., 27 ITR 341, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court, interpreting the expression "transfer of a capital asset" held as under: “We think that the expression "transfer" in the section includes not only a permanent transfer but also a temporary transfer of title to the property in question and lease of mines for any period would fall within the ambit of section 12B of the Act. 
It was also contended by Mr. Dutt that a transaction of a lease was not tantamount to a transfer of a title but that a mere contractual right was created. 
We do not think that this argument is correct. 
A lease of land is transfer of inter- est in the land and creates a right in rem: and there is a transfer of title in favour of the lessee though the lessor has right of reversion after the period of the lease termi- nates.”
This decision has been referred to with approval by this Court in R.K. Palshikar (HUF) v. Commissioner of Income. Tax, M.P. Nagpur, [1988] 3 SCC 549. 
Viscount Simon in Gold Coast Selection Trust Ltd. v. Inspector of Taxes, 17 ITR 19 (supp) observed "valuation is not an exact science. Mathe- matical certainty is not demanded, nor indeed is it possi- ble. 
In Traders and Mines Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (supra) the Income-tax Officer had also determined the cost of the lease hold fights on proportionate basis. 
In Shetty's case the question was whether the transfer of the goodwill of a newly com- menced business can give rise to a capital gain taxable under section 45 of the Act. 
This Court answered the ques- tion in the negative. 
Referring to the charging section and the computation provisions under the Act this Court held that none of those provisions suggest the inclusion of an asset under the Head "Capital Gain," in the acquisition of which no cost at all can be conceived. 
Good will generated in an individual's business was held to be an asset in which no cost element can be identified or envisaged. 
It was also held that the date of acquisition of the asset is a material factor in applying the computation provisions pertaining to capital gains and in the case of self-generated good will it is not possible to determine the same. 
The said certificate which was published in Notification No. 43/3/50-Judicial dated March 11, 1950 read as follows: That the said Act shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2) of Article 31, or has contravened the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Clauses (2) and (6) of Article 31 which are relevant for these cases as they stood at the commencement of the Constitution read as follows:- 31. (1) (2) No property, moveable or immovable, including any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, shall be taken possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorising the taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken possession of or acquired and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given.
(6) Any law of the State enacted not more than eighteen months before the commencement of this Constitution may within three months from such commencement be submitted to the President for his certification; and thereupon, if the President by public notification so certifies, it shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2) of this article or has contravened the provisions of sub- section (2) of section 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act published in the Bihar Gazette said: “For some years past there has been wide spread anti zamindari agitation amongst the cultivators of the province leading to frequent agrarian troubles. These troubles, as is well known, owe their origin to the feeling of dissatisfaction that the tenants have against the landlords owing to the latter's failure to provide for the upkeep of irrigational facilities, to the realisation of abwab, to the enhancement of rents and to ejectment from holdings and other similar causes. The landlord's apathy towards the upkeep of the irrigational facilities has been considerably accentuated recently on account of the large scale commutation of rents in kind into cash rents. Hence this Bill. It is proposed under Government management to make adequate arrangements for saving the cultivators from the harassment to which they are often subjected at present by the amlas of the zamindars, to save them from the ruinous financial drain of litigation for the recovery of arrears of rents and above all to benefit them by providing for irrigation facilities. After making payment for objects specified in the Bill and reserving a reasonable balance for cost of management, the net surplus will be paid over to the proprietors.”   
Section 3 to 5 c-f the Act were in Chapter 11 of the Act. Section 3 provided as follows :- "3. (1) The Provincial Government may, by notification declare that the estates or tenures of a proprietor or tenure holder, specified in the notification, shall be placed under the management of the Provincial Government, and on the publication of the said notification, the estates or tenures of such proprietor or tenure-holder shall, so long as the notification remains in force, be deemed to have been placed under the management of the Provincial Government with effect from the date of the commencement of management. (2) The notification under sub-section (1) shall- (a) specify such particulars of the estates or tenures as may be prescribed; (b) specify the period for which the estates or tenures shall be placed under the management of the Provincial Government; and (c) vest the management of such estates or tenures in a person who shall be an officer not below the rank of Deputy Collector (hereinafter called the Manager) (3) The notification under sub-section (1) shall be published in the Official Gazette and a copy of such notification shall be sent by registered post, with an acknowledgment due, to the proprietor of the estates recorded in the general registers of revenue-paying or revenue-free lands maintained under the Land Registration Act, 1876, or in case such estates are not recorded in any such registers, and in the case of tenure-holders, to the proprietor or tenure-holder of the estates or tenures, as the case may be, if the Collector of the district is in possession of a list of Such proprietors or tenure holders together with their addresses (4) The publication and posting of such notification, where such notification is sent by post, in the manner provided in sub-section (3), shall be conclusive evidence of the notice of the declaration to the proprietor or tenure-holder whose estates or tenures are affected by the notification under sub-section (1) and of the service of such notice on the proprietor or tenure-holder 7'
Section 4 of the Act laid down the consequences of the issue of a notification in respect of any estate or tenure.
It provided inter alia that (a) the proprietor or tenure- holder shall cease to have any power of management of his estates or tenures and (b) subject to the provisions of sections 7, 8, 9, 10. 11 and 12, the Manager shall take charge of such estates or tenures together with such buildings, papers and other properties appertaining to the estates or tenures, as in the opinion of the Manager are essential for the proper management of the estates or tenures.
Section 5 of the Act read as follows: "5. The Manager may, by a written order, require the proprietor or tenure-holder or his agents and employees on a date to be specified in such order to produce before him such documents, papers or registers relating to the estates or tenures of such proprietor or tenure-holder or to furnish him with such information as the Manager may deem necessary for the management of the estates or tenures: Provided that the proprietor or tenure-holder shall have A the option to comply with such written order either himself or through authorised agent.
Chapter III of the Act contained the special provisions regarding trust estates or tenures, homesteads and lands used for agricultural and horticultural purposes and certain buildings comprised in estates or tenures placed under the management of the Provincial Government. 
Chapter IV of the Act authorised the removal of mortgagees and lessees in possession of an estate or tenure. 
Chapter V contained provisions regarding the filing of claims by secured creditors and other persons in possession of the estate or tenure, determination of liabilities and preparation of scheme for their liquidation. 
Chapter VI of the Act provided for the filing of claims by creditors other than secured creditors. Chapter VII made provisions for granting protection from sale of certain estates. 
Chapter VIII of the Act contained detailed provisions regarding the management of the estates by the Manager. Section 22 of the Act which was in Chapter VIII provided that 'every Manager shall manage the property committed to him diligently and faithfully and shall, in every respect, act to the best of his judgment'.
Chapter IX of the Act provided for an appeal to the order of prescribed authority against the Manager.
Chapter X made provision for the constitution of Estates and Tenures Management Advisory Committee and their functions.
Sections 30 and 31 of the Act which were in Chapter XI of the Act barred the jurisdiction of courts regarding matters referred to therein. They read as under:
"30. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or anything having the force of law, the declaration of the Provincial Government under sub- section (1) of section 3 and the order of the Manager under sub-section (1) of section 13 or where on appeal has been preferred, the order of the appellate authority under section 27, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be final and shall not be questioned in any Court; and so long as the management of the estates and tenures by the Provincial Government continues, it shall not be lawful for any court to pass any order or do anything which may in any way interfere or have the effect of interfering with such management by the Provincial Government.
31. No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie in any court against the Crown or any servant of the Crown or against any person acting under the orders of a servant of the Crown for, or on account of, or in respect of, anything done or purporting to be done in good faith under this Act or in respect of any alleged neglect or omission to perform any duty devolving on the Provincial Government or any of the officers subordinate to it and acting under this Act or in respect of the exercise of, or the failure to exercise, any power conferred by this Act, on the Provincial Government or any officer subordinate to it and acting under this Act, except for the loss or the misapplication occasioned by the wilful default or gross-negligence of any officer of the Provincial Government.
Chapter XII of the Act contained some miscellaneous provisions regarding suits and appeals by or against the proprietor or tenure-holder during the period of management by the Government. 
Section 33 in Chapter XIII of the Act provided for relinquishment of management of an estate taken over by the Government and other consequential matters. 
The other parts of the Act contained provisions regarding other miscellaneous matters.
Under section 4 (22) of the Bihar and Orissa General Clauses Act, 1917, a thing shall be deemed to be done in 'good faith' where it is in fact done honestly, whether it is done negligently or not. 
The Court under sub-rule (2) of Rule 2 can, on good cause shown and upon terms to be fixed by the Court from time to time, at any time before any decree is passed, extend the time fixed for the payment of the amount found or declared due under sub-rule (1) or of the amount adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs, charges, expenses and interest. 
Rule 3 of Order 34 provides that when an application is made by the defendant seeking a final decree, the Court has two courses open depending on the defendant making payment in Court of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 2, and not making payment Under sub-rule (1) of Rule 3, a final decree of one kind may be passed in terms thereof if payment is made.
But if no payment is made a final decree of the other kind may be passed in terms of sub-rule (2) of Rule 3. 
Sub-rule (3) of Rule 3 enjoins that on the passing of a final decree under sub-rule (2) all liabilities to which the defendant is subject in respect of mortgage or on account of suit shall be deemed to have been 243 discharged. 
Under Rule 5, the defendant is given another opportunity to make payment of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4, if such payment. is made on or before the day fixed or at any time before the confirmation of sale in pursuance of the final decree. 
The Court, however, has no power to go on fixing date after date, in postponing confirmation of sale to accommodate the defendant, as was held by this Court in Hukumchand v. Bansi- lal & Ors[1967] INSC 118; , [1967] 3 SCR 695. 
Reference may also be made to Janak Raj v. Gurdial Singh and Anr, [1967] 2 SCR wherein it has been laid down that when no application for setting aside a sale has been made to the executing court or when one made under Rules 89 to 91 of Order 21 gets dis- missed, the court has no choice thereafter but to confirm the sale. 
This Court made significant observation by spell- ing out the policy of protecting auction purchasers in the following words:
"The policy of the Legislature seems to be that unless a stranger auction-purchaser is protected against the vicissitudes ,of the fortunes of the suit, sales in execution would not attract customers and it would be to the detriment of the interest of the borrower and the creditor alike if sales were allowed to be impugned merely because the decree was ulti- mately set aside or modified. 
[Underlining ours] However, this Court in Sardar Govindrao Mahadik & Anr v. v. Devi Sahai & Ors, [1981] INSC 206; [1982] 2 SCR 186, carved out an excep- tion in the case of the auction purchaser who was a decree- holder himself, denying to him the protection given in Janak Raj's case (supra) to the stranger auction purchaser.
In the above case Chandrachud, C.J. has observed thus: "The principle is well-settled that in accordance with the rules of natural justice, an adverse report in a confidential roll cannot be acted upon to deny promotional opportunities unless it is communicated to the person concerned so that he has an opportunity to improve his work and conduct or to explain the circumstances leading to the report. 
Sections 10 and 13 of the Payment of Bonus Act, as they stood at the relevant time, were as follows: Section 10. 
PAYMENT OF MINIMUM BONUS- Subject to the provisions of ss 8 and 13 every employer shall be bound to pay to every employee in an accounting year a minimum bonus which shall be four per cent of the salary or wage earned by the employee during the accounting year or forty rupees, whichever is higher, whether there are profits in the accounting year or not:

Provided that where such employee has not completed fifteen years of age at the beginning of the accounting year, the provisions of this section shall have effect in relation to such employee as if for the words 'forty rupees', the words 'twenty five rupees" were substituted. 
Section13-PROPORTIONATE REDUCTION OF BONUS IN CERTAIN CASES-Where an employee has not worked for all the working days in any accounting year, the minimum bonus of forty rupees or, as the case may be, of twenty five rupees, per cent, of his salary or wage for the days he has worked in that accounting year shall be proportionately reduced. 