On a reading of the evidence of PW 1, PW 3 and the statement of the respondent under section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code which is referred to above, we are of the view that the doubt which the learned Judge of the High Court entertained about the nature of the metallic bars which were seized from the respondent under Exh. 1 cannot be considered to be a reasonable doubt.
Reading the answer of the accused as a whole it means that he knew that when his steel trunk was opened and searched, there was gold in it but he had no knowledge that the packet contained gold when it was handed over to him by Mammu asking him to hand it over in his house. 
The answer consists of two parts and they refer to two distinct matters. 
The first part relates to seizure of gold from him and the latter part relates to what had happened earlier when the packet was handed over to him. 
The case might have been different if he had said that no gold was recovered from his box. 
The High Court, therefore, erred in holding that the statement of the respondent that the gold was seized from him could not be used against him on the ground that it would result in the splitting up of the statement which was on the whole exculpatory.
Even without the aid of the statement made by the respondent before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent Exh. P.2, it is possible to hold in this case that the metallic bars seized from the respondent under Exh. P.1 were gold bars in view of the evidence of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 3 and the statement of the respondent before the Court. 
The High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that gold had not been seized from the respondent by P.W.1 as per Exh. P.1 at the Trichur Railway Station.
In the instant case, the respondent had not discharged the burden which lay on him.
In the circumstances his explanation that he had no knowledge that he was in possession of or carrying smuggled gold bars cannot be believed, as rightly held by the learned Sessions Judge. 
The prosecution has clearly established the guilt of the respondent. 
The judgment of the High Court is, therefore, liable to be set aside and it is accordingly set aside. 
The conviction of the respondent and the sentence imposed on him by the learned District Magistrate which were affirmed on appeal by the learned Sessions Judge are restored. The appeal is accordingly allowed
The principal Act referred to in section 97 is the Code. 
These rules no doubt must not be inconsistent with the body of the code. 
But they can amend or add to rules in the First Schedule to the Code. 
A reading of section 97 of the Amending Act shows that it deals with the effect of the Amending Act on the entire Code both the main part of the Code consisting of sections and the First Schedule to the Code which contains Orders and Rules. Section 97(1) of the Amending Act takes note of the several local amendments made by a State Legislature and by a High Court before the commencement of the Amending Act and states that any such amendment shall except insofar as such amendment or provision is consistent with the provisions of the Code as amended by the Amending Act stands repealed. 
It means that any local amendment of the Code which is inconsistent with the Code as amended by the Amending Act would cease to be operative on the commencement of the Amending Act, i.e., on February 1, 1977.
The repealing provision in section 97(1) is not confined in its operation to provisions of the Code including the Orders and Rules in the First Schedule which are actually amended by the Amending Act. 
The object of section 97 of the Amending Act appears to be that on and after February 1, 1977 throughout India wherever the Code was in force there should be same procedural law in operation in all the civil courts subject of course to any future local amendment that may be made either by the State Legislature or by the High Court, as the case may be in accordance with law. 
Until such amendment is made the Code as amended by the Amending Act alone should govern the procedure in civil courts which are governed by the Code. 
We are emphasising this in view of the decision of the Allahabad High Court which is now under appeal before us.
The difference between the Code and the rule as it was in force in State of Uttar Pradesh prior to the commencement of the Amending Act was that in the State of Uttar Pradesh sub- rules (1) and (3) of Rule 72 of Order 21 had been completely deleted and sub-rule (2) had been renumbered as Rule 72 with the modification that for the words "with such permission" the words "the property sold" had been substituted. 
The result was that in the case of a decree-holder the need for obtaining the express permission of the executing court before offering the bid for or purchasing the property put up for sale under sub-rule (1) was not there and the power of the Court to set aside the sale under sub-rule (3) of Rule 72 in the absence of such permission had also been taken away.
It is thus seen that even though Rule 72 was not amended by the Amending Act its retention in the form in which it was in Code had been recommended by the Law Commission for the reasons given by it.
Now reverting to section 97(1) of the Amending Act, the High Court was in error in holding that because no amendment had been made to Rule 72 by the Amending Act, section 97(1) had no effect on the Rule as it was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh before the commencement of the Amending Act.
As observed earlier, the effect of section 97(1) is that all local amendments made to any of the provisions of the Code either by a State Legislature or by a High Court which were inconsistent with the Code as amended by the Amending Act stood repealed irrespective of the fact whether the corresponding provision in the Code had been amended or modified by the Amending Act and that was subject only to what was found in sub-section (2) of section 97. 
Sub-section (3) of section 97 provides that save as otherwise provided in sub-section 24 (2) the provisions of the Code as amended by the Amending Act shall apply to every suit, proceeding, appeal or application pending at the commencement of the Amending Act or instituted or filed after such commencement notwithstanding the fact that the right or cause of action in pursuance of which such suit, proceeding, appeal or application is instituted or filed had been acquired or had accrued before such commencement. 
Sub-section (3) of section 97 sets at rest doubts, if any, by making the Code as amended by the Amending Act applicable to all proceedings referred to therein subject to sub-section (2) of section 97.
The High Court was therefore in error in holding that the amended Rule 72 of Order 21 which was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh prior to February 1, 1977 continued to be in force after that date and that the court sale held in which the decree holder had purchased the property without the express permission of the executing court was unassailable under sub-rule (3) of Rule 72.
We do not in the circumstances of the case find any merit in the contention of the respondent No. 3 that the prayer made under Order 21, Rule 72(3) of the Code was barred by time particularly because of the doubts about its applicability in the State of Uttar Pradesh being there. 
At this stage we find it unjust to consider the plea of limitation when the High Court and the Subordinate Courts below have not found it proper to reject the application on that ground.
The order passed by the High Court is, therefore, set aside and the order passed by the District Judge affirming the order of the executing court is restored.
The appeal is accordingly allowed. 
No costs.
We thank Shri S.N. Kacker, Senior Advocate, who assisted us in this case at our request as amicus curiae.
M.L.A. Appeal allowed
We are concerned in this case with Section 80 C.P.C. as it stood prior to its amendment, by Act 104 of 1976 (Even under the amended provision, the position remains unaltered insofar as a suit of this nature is concerned). 
We shall extract the Section as it  stood at the material time: 
The effect of the Section is clearly to impose a bar against the institution of a suit against the Government or a public officer in respect of any act purported to be done by him in his official capacity until the expiration of two months after notice in writing has been delivered to or left at the office of the Secretary to Government or Collector of the concerned district and in the case of a public officer delivered to him or left at his office, stating the particulars enumerated in the last part of sub-section (1) of the Section. 
When we examine the scheme of the Section it becomes obvious that the Section has been enacted as a measure of public policy with the object of ensuring that before a suit is instituted against the Government or a public officer, the Government or the officer concerned is afforded an opportunity to scrutinise the claim in respect of which the suit is proposed to be filed and if it be found to be a just claim, to take immediate action and thereby avoid unnecessary litigation and save public time and money by settling the claim without driving the person, who has issued the notice, to institute the suit involving considerable expenditure and delay.
The Government, unlike private parties, is expected to consider the matter covered by the notice in a most objective manner, after obtaining such legal advice as they may think fit, and take a decision in public interest within the period of two months allowed by the Section as to whether the claim is just and reasonable and the contemplated suit should, therefore, be avoided by speedy negotiations and settlement or whether the claim should be resisted by fighting out the suit if and when it is instituted. 
There is clearly a public purpose underlying the mandatory provision contained in the Section insisting on the issuance of a notice setting out the particulars of the proposed suit and giving two months time to Government or a public officer before a suit can be instituted against them. 
The object of the Section is the advancement of justice and the securing of public good by avoidance of unnecessary litigation.
When the language used in the Statute is clear and unambiguous, it is the plain duty of the Court to give effect to it and considerations of hardship will not be a legitimate ground for not faithfully implementing the mandate of the legislature.
It must now be regarded as settled law that a suit against the Government or a public officer, to which the requirement of a prior notice under Section 80 C.P.C. is attracted, can not be validly instituted until the expiration of the period of two months next after the notice in writing has been delivered to the authorities concerned in the manner prescribed for in the Section and if filed before the expiry of the said period, the suit has to be dismissed as not maintainable.
The reasons stated by the learned Judge in justification of his taking the said view despite the clear pronouncement of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Bhagchand's case do not appeal to us as correct or sound. In the light of the conclusion expressed by us in the foregoing paragraphs about the true scope and effect of Section 80 C.P.C., the aforecited decision of the learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court cannot be accepted as laying down good law.
In the result, we confirm the judgment and decree of the High Court and dismiss this appeal. 
The parties will bear the respective costs in this appeal
The relevant provisions of sub-section 14 of section 2 which defines "capital asset" and section 45(1) of the said Act which provides for the levy of tax on capital gains is as under:
What is parted with under the terms of the lease-deed is the right to exploit the land by extracting clay which fight directly flows from the ownership of the land. 
The said right evaluated in terms of money forms part of the cost of acquiring the land. 
If transfer of capital asset in section 45 of the Act includes grant of Mining Lease for any period .then obviously the "cost of acquisi- tion" of the land would include the "cost of acquisition" of the Mining right under the lease. 
Undisputedly the grant of alease being a transfer of an asset there is no escape from the conclusion that there is a live nexus between the "cost of acquisition" of the land and the rights granted under the lease. 
The amount of Rs.27,260 paid by the Assessee was not only the cost of acquiring the land but also of acquiring bundle of fights in the said land including the right to grant lease. 
There is, thus no force in the contention of the learned counsel that conceptually there is no "cost of acquisition" which is attributable to the fight of limited enjoyment transferred by the grant of the lease.  
So far as the apportionment of the cost of acquisition is concerned it is a question of fact to be determined by the Income-Tax Officer in each case on the basis of evidence.
The determination of the cost of the right to excavate clay in the land in terms of money may be difficult but is none-the-less of a money value and the best valuation possible must be made.
Once the cost of the lease-hold fights is determined then there is no difficulty in making apportionment. 
We, therefore, do not find any force in the first contention of Mr. Salve and reject the same.
In view of our finding on the first contention the second contention does not survive. 
The value of lease hold fights in the cost of acquisition of land being determinable the computation provisions under the Act are applicable and section 45 would be attracted. 
The third reason for holding that the good will generated in a newly commenced business cannot be described as an 'asset' within the terms of section 45 of the 603 Act was that it is impossible to determine its cost of acquisition. 
None of the three reasons given by this Court in Shetty's case are applicable in the present case. 
We have held that the cost of acquisition of lease hold rights can be determined. 
The date of acquisition of the right to grant lease has to be the same as the date of acquiring the free hold rights. 
The ratio of Shetty's case is thus not attract- ed to the question involved in the present case. 
We, there- fore, do not find any force in the second contention also.
Accordingly the appeal is dismissed with costs.
N.V.K. Appeal dis- missed
A persual of the provisions of the Act shows that it was intended to bring about a reform in the land distribution system of Bihar for the general benefit of the community. 
l`he taking over of the management and control over land was found to be necessary as a preliminary step towards the implementation of the Directive Principles of State Policy. 
The Act was similar in nature to the Bihar Land Reforms Act (Act XXX of 1950), the constitutional validity of which was considered by this Court in The State of Bihar v Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbanga Ors (1) 
The object of the Act was to bring the Government face to face with the cultivators of the soil in order to facilitate the further reform of abolition of zamindari.
It was also intended to make provision for better irrigation facilities and to prevent realisation of excessive rent or revenue from the cultivators. 
Thus the said proceedings came to an end. We are now concerned with only the appeal field by the State of Bihar.
In the lengthy cross-examination of defendant No. 2 we do not find any material which would discredit his evidence or which would show that he had either acted in excess of his powers or mala fide. 
We also find that a large number of suits had been filed for recovery of the arrears due to the estate and merely because some of the suits were dismissed on merits or on the ground that some of the persons sued were dead or not traceable, it cannot be said that there was lack of bona fides on the part of the Manager.
From the foregoing, we find that it could not be said that there was want of good faith on the part of either the Government or defendant No. 2 who was the Manager. 
If a certain share in a tauzi had not been notified on the first occasion it again cannot be said as having been done either mala fide or deliberately to harm the plaintiff.
and we think the Division Bench accepted it rightly in view of the definition of the expression 'tenure' in section 5 of the Act 
It, however, omitted to notice that the plaintiff had failed to discharge his duty imposed on him under section 5 of the Act which provided that the Manager could by a written order require the proprietor or tenure-holder or his agents and employees on a date to be specified in such order to produce before him such documents or papers or registers relating to the estate or tenure concerned or to furnish him with such information as he may deem necessary for the management of the estate or tenure. 
Hence if the collection papers were not prepared till then by defendant No 2 in time it was not on account of any negligence on the part of defendant No. 2.
It is difficult to agree with the High Court that there was any wilful default or gross negligence on the part of defendant No. 2 in this regard.
With regard to the charge that defendant No. 2 had filed a large number of certificate cases, some of which were later on struck off, the observation of the High Court itself supports that there was no negligence on the part of defendant No. 2 but on the other hand the plaintiff was responsible for it. 
The High Court omitted to notice that the certificate cases had been filed though hurriedly on the basis of the arrears list submitted by the plaintiff, himself. 
In the circumstances it is difficult to charge defendant No. 2 with wilful default or gross negligence on a complaint by the plaintiff. 
Further the High Court did not refer in the course of its judgment at least to a few such cases which showed that there was gross negligence.
The High Court overlooked that nearly 7,000 certificate cases had to he filed in a short period. 
On the material before us we are not satisfied that the above ground has been made out against the defendants.
But when once it is conceded that the first notification was not an unauthorised one the defendants could not be held liable for reimbursing the penalty of Rs 2,000 paid by the plaintiff.
In so far as the cost of management is concerned, the dispute is confined to about Rs. 8000. 
It is seen that in present case while the trial court proceeded on the basis that the Act was unconstitutional that the defendants were trespassers on the plaintiff's estate and that the plaintiff owed no duty to them, the Division Bench of the High Court which finally disposed of the appeal failed to give due attention to section 31 of the Act which had been held to be constitutional earlier.
Section 31 of the Act provided that no suit or other legal proceeding would lie in any court against the State Government or against any servant of the State Government or against any person acting under the orders of a servant of the State Government for or on account of or in respect of anything done or purporting to he done in good faith under the Act or in respect of any alleged neglect or omission to perform any duty devolving on the State Government or any of the officers subordinate to it or acting under the Act or in respect of the exercise of or on failure to exercise any power conferred by the Act on the State Government or any officer subordinate to it and acting under the Act, except for the loss or the misapplication occasioned by the wilful default or gross negligence of any officer of the State Government. 
There is no ground to hold that either the State Government or any of the officers acting under it in performance of their duties under the Act had not acted honestly either in issuing the notification under section 3 (l) of the Act on November 19,1949 by which only parts of Tauzis No. 7/8 and 30 had been notified or in not preparing separate collection statements before April, 1950. 
the mistake appears to have occurred because the plaintiff himself had acquired the said Tauzis in installments. 
Further as soon as the error was pointed out steps were taken by defendant No. 2 to get the unnotified share also notified and the Government issued a notification accordingly within about four months. 
It is because the plaintiff did not hand over even the consolidated collection statements by April, l950, the separate collection statements could not be got prepared by defendant No. 2 by April, 1950 and even according to the plaintiff himself it would have taken six months to prepare separate collection statements on the basis of the consolidated statements. 
It is not shown that either the State Government or any of its officers knew before hand that the plaintiff 546 had maintained a consolidated statement of accounts and that deliberately in order to cause loss to the plaintiff the first notification had been issued in respect of a portion of Tauzis Nos. 7/8 and 30. 
These facts constituted a good defence under Section 31 of the Act against any claim based on any alleged neglect or omission since there was no proof of any wilful default or gross negligence on the part of the defendants. 
There was also no proof of deliberate abuse of statutory power nor of usurpation of a power which the authorities knew that they did not possess. 
In the circumstances the claim for damages on all counts should fail except with regard to the claim for Rs. 8,000 which had been incurred as cost of management in excess of what was authorised by law.
For the foregoing reasons, we set aside the judgment and decree by the trial court and the judgment and decree dated August 17, 1963 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court and pass a decree against defendant No. 1, the State of Bihar directing it to pay the plaintiff's legal representatives a sum of Rs. 8,000/-with interest thereon at 6 per cent per annum from the date of suit i.e. September 21, 1951 till the date of payment.
The rest of the claim in the suit is dismissed. 
Parties shall bear their own costs in all the courts. 
The appeal is accordingly allowed in part.
S.R. Appeal allowed
This is evident from the copies of both the decrees which are part of the additional documents submitted to this Court. 
The mortgaged property or sufficient part there- of shall be directed to be sold; and for the purpose of such sale, the plaintiff shall produce before the court or such officer, as it appoints, all documents in his posses- sion or relating to the mgrtgaged property. 
It is evident from the terms of the final decree that it was passed on the basis of the preliminary decree dated July 25, 1962 and the plaintiff making an application on September 19, 1962 for a final decree, and it appearing that the payment directed by the said decree and orders had not been made by the defend- ant or any person on his behalf or any other person entitled to redeem the mortgage. 
In order to appreciate the respective contentions of learned counsel for the parties, the scheme of Order 34 would be essential to be grasped. 
It would be seen that Rule 1 thereof enjoins that subject to the provisions of the Code, all persons having an interest either in the mortgage-security or in the fight of redemption shall be joined as parties to any suit relating to the mortgage.
Confining to the relevant statutory provisions thereunder, as are applicable to the case, the preliminary decree was passed in the foreclosure suit in accordance with sub-clause (c)(i) of Clause (1) of Rule 2. 
It is thus notice- able that at every conceivable step opportunity is given to the defendant to redeem the property at any time before the confirmation of sale made in pursuance of the final decree, and if such deposit is made the Court bas to accept the payment and make an order in favour of the defendam. 
No right is given to the mort- gagor defendant to ask for postponement of confirmation of sale in order to enable him to deposit the amount. 
The Code of Civil Procedure of 1908 makes ample provision for the protection of the interest of the judgment debator who feels that the decree ought not to have been passed against hint.
As is discernible Sardar Govindrao'case (supra) and Hukumchand's case (Supra) are cases distinguishable as against Janak Raj's case (supra). 
Whereas Sardar Govindrao's case (supra) is a case of a mortgagee-'decree-holder'-auction purchaser and Hukumchand's case [supra] relating to a mortgage suit, Janak Raj's case (supra) is a case of a simple money decree in execution of which the auction purchaser got to buy the judgment-debtors immovable property. 
Still the underlined words in the extract from Janak Raj's case (supra) conceiva- bly leave to the judgment- debtor his rights under the Civil Procedure Code whereby he can have the decree passed against him set aside and to seek appropriate reliefs on the basis thereof.
Now coming to the substituted preliminary decree, even though by consent, there is no denying the fact that the seal of adjudication gets affixed to it. 
The Court passing it has formally expressed the terms itself under its own authority, even though at the suggestion of the parties. 
It conclusively determines the right of the parties with regard to the matters in controversy valid in the suit till the stage of passing of the preliminary decree. 
The Explanation to Section 2(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure defining the word "decree", goes to say that a decree is preliminary when further proceedings had to be taken before a suit can be completely disposed of. 
It is final where such adjudication completely disposes of the suit. 
It may be partly preliminary and partly final. The preliminary decree in the instant case, whether as originally made or as substituted in ap- peal, had not disposed of the suit completely. 
It was to be enforceable on the terms it was drawn. 
There were obliga- tions for the defendants to fulfil and on the violation to observe these obligations rights accrued to the plaintiffs.
If we import this analysis into the understanding of the decree, the defendants could obviously in appeal against the decree have their obligations altered and the scope and role of re-defining the obligations definitely vested in the appellate court. 
It cannot thus be twistedly said that the obligations of the defendants may substitutedly be that as defined by the appellate preliminary decree, but the right of the plaintiffs kept accrued on the failure of non-fulfil- ment of the obligations of the defendants under the prelimi- nary decree of the Court of first instance. 
Is it then conceivable that the appellate preliminary decree was valid for the purposes of defining the obligations of the defend- ants, but was not valid since rights had accrued to the plaintiffs on the non-fulfilment of obligations under the preliminary decree of the Court of first instance7 Such an interpretation or construction would render the substantive right of appeal redundant and choked defeating the ends of justice and would otherwise be iII-fined in the scheme of Order 34 C.P.C.
Therefore it must be held that in the field the only preliminary decree is the one which was passed by the Calcutta High Court substituting the original prelimi- nary decree of the Trial Court, and the final decree, if at all required, is to be passed in accordance therewith.
The fact that the decree was consensual in nature, having been passed between the parties to the suit, is of no consequence. 
It has the same binding force just as one which could be passed on contest. 
An objection was raised that to this settlement, the auction purchasers were not parties and hence not bound by it, though their interest had appeared on the scene due to the auction purchase.
Our attention was invited to Section 47 of the C.P.C. and to Explanation II(a) providing that' for the purposes of Sec- tion 47, a purchaser of a property in execution of the decree shall be deemed to be a party to the suit in which the decree is passed. 
There is an obvious fallacy in the argument.
Significantly, for the purposes of Section 47, the auction purchaser deemingly is a party to the suit in which the decree is passed if he has purchased the property at the sale and execution of that decree. 
Instantly, the auction purchasers had purchased the property in execution of the final decree and not in execution of the preliminary decree and on that basis can at best be deemed to be parties to the suit throughout only on the strength of the final decree if obtained on the terms of the existing preliminary decree.
But here the property, as said before, was not put to sale in execution of the preliminary decree. 
The auction purchasers cannot claim themselves to be parties to the suit at the time of or at any time prior to the passing of the preliminary decree. 
It is to be remembered that both the preliminary decree and final decree are passed under Order 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure in one and the same suit, in which two decrees may be required to be passed at separate stages. 
And both being formal adjudications appropriate to the stage are formal expressions of decision of the Court.
At the stage of the preliminary decree there arises no question of the property under mortgage being put to sale in execution of the decree, and if that is so the ultimate auction purchaser cannot be held deemingly to be a party to the suit upto the stage of the preliminary decree. 
In our opinion, the converse interpretation that the auction pur- chaser at a sale and execution of the final decree shall be deemed to be party to the suit at and prior to the stage when preliminary decree is passed, unless sustaining, would be contrary to the spirit and scheme of Order 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
And since all questions arising between the parties to the suit in which the decree was passed, or their representatives, and relating to the execution, dis- charge or satisfaction of the decree are required to be determined by the Court executing the decree and not by a separate suit, the objection of the appellant judgment- debtor with regard to the knocking out of the original preliminary decree was to our mind sustainable. 
In terms of the preliminary appellate decree and fulfilment of the obligations of the defendants of payment of the sum as struck, there remained no occasion for entertaining, main- taining or sustaining the application of the plaintiff mortgagees for sale of the property mortgaged and on that basis the auction sale in favour of the auction purchasers and confirmation of that sale automatically becomes non-est.
We are thus of the considered view that the High Court went wrong in rejecting the objection of the appellant judgment- debtor.
For the view above taken it would not be necessary to go into the other two questions raised by Mr. Ganguli, and for which there is warrant in the order of the High Court grant- ing certificate, with regard to violation of section 35 of the Bengal Money Lenders Act, as well as to settle the effect of the executing court not mentioning its own evalua- tion of the property in the proclamation of sale and to have illegally incorporated both the evaluations as suggested by the decree-holders and the judgmentdebtors, rendering the auction sale void.
But this is not the end of the matter. 
The auction purchasers are not on firm footing on the strength of the observations afore-quoted in Janak Raj's case (supra), afore-distinguished. 
In that case the relief in the suit was unconnected with the property sold in execution of the decree. Here the relief in the suit is inextricably connect- ed with the property sold. 
The two cannot be divorced diverting them to different courses. 
The substituted prelimi- nary decree is the one passed under Rule 4 of Order 34 and involves the property in dispute. 
It so happens that the stage of Rule 5 Order 34 stands withdrawn, rendered non-est and wiped out.
No compensatory sum is due to the auction purchasers under the strict terms of subrule (2) of Rule 5 of Order 34, whereunder the defendant mortgagor, in addition to the payment of all amount due from him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4. is required to deposit a sum equal to 5% of the amount of the purchase, money paid into the Court by the auction purchaser, which obviously is meant to compensate the auction purchaser. 
That stage in the eye of law has not arrived. 
Since in strict sense the provisions would not be applicable to the facts of the instant case, we in exercise of the Court's inherent powers under the Code and powers otherwise under Article 142 of the Constitution, to further the cause of complete justice, confining it to the facts of this case, and to be fair to the auction purchasers, direct the appellant to burden himself in paying to the auction purchasers, interest on their blocked sum of Rs. 1,05,000, the purchase money, lying in Court since 1963, which we quantify as equivalent to the sum deposited. 
We thus allow this appeal on the condition that the appellant shall depos- it in the executing Court a sum of Rs.1,05,000, within a period of two months from this date and direct that this sum together with the sum of Rs. 1,05,000, lying in deposit as auction money be paid over by the executing Court to the auction purchasers, singularly or collectively, at the convenience of the auction purchasers. 
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, we leave the parties to bear their own costs in this Court.
V.P.R. Appeal allowed
The resolution passed by the Zonal Promotion Committee does not convey the meaning which the Corporation wants to attribute to it viz. that the Zonal Promotion Committee had found on a consideration of the relevant Confidential Reports that the appellant was unsuitable for being included in the 1970 panel.
The resolution passed by the Zonal Promotion Committee means that it was not willing to reopen the case of the appellant on the basis of his service records. 
The resolution does not show that the Zonal Promotion Committee had in fact considered the suitability of the appellant for promotion to a higher post at the time when his juniors were empanelled for purposes of promotion.
If it had done so, the Zonal Promotion Committee would have recorded in its resolution that the appellant had been found to be unsuitable for promotion during the relevant time. 
It appears that the Zonal Promotion Committee had not considered the case of the appellant in the year 1977 in accordance with law. 
Having thus deferred the consideration of the case of the appellant on that occasion, the Zonal Promotion Committee should have considered the case of the appellant when the relevant Confidential Reports were placed before it and passed an appropriate resolution instead of remarking that the case of the appellant could not be reopened. 
The reopening of a case arises only when it has been once considered and a decision is taken thereon.
Since we have no material before us to show that there has been such a consideration earlier, the resolution of the Zonal Promotion Committee passed in May, 1979 stating that case of the appellant could not be reopened has to be treated as an ineffective one in the eye of law. 
It is, therefore, difficult to accept the submission made on behalf on the Corporation that the case of the appellant had been duly considered by the Zonal Promotion Committee for the purpose 11 of including him in the 1970 panel. 
In these circumstances, we have no option but to issue a direction of the Corporation to consider the case of the appellant for being included in the 1970 panel.
We accordingly allow this appeal and issue a direction to the Corporation to consider the case of the appellant for promotion as on the date on which his immediate junior in the Northern Region in the year 1972, that is, Respondent No. 13 was promoted and if on such consideration the appellant is found suitable for promotion to promote him to the higher cadre and place him above such immediate junior in higher cadre. 
If the appellant is so promoted, the Corporation shall also give him all consequential benefits but he would not be entitled to any arrears of salary (the difference between the salary of the higher post and salary he had actually drawn) upto the date on which he rejoined his duties in the post in the Northern Region after he was retransferred.
There will be no order as to costs.
S.R. Appeal allowed
Such an opportunity is not an empty formality, its object, partially, being to enable the superior authorities to decide on a consideration of the explanation offered by the person concerned, whether the adverse report is justified. 
Unfortunately, for one reason or another, not arising out of any fault on the part of the appellant, though the adverse report was communicated to him, the Government has not been able to consider his explanation and decide whether the report was justified. 
In these circumstances it is difficult to support the non-issuance of the integrity certificate to the appellant. 
The chain of reaction began with the adverse report and the infirmity in the link of causation is that no one has yet decided whether that report was justified. 
We cannot speculate, in the absence of a proper pleading, whether the appellant was not found suitable otherwise, that is to say, for reasons other than those connected with the nonissuance of an integrity certificate to him." 
This must have influenced the decision of the Selection Committee. 
On October 14,1981 when the Selection Committee met, it does not appear to have considered the representation made by the appellant against his non- selection. 
These facts are not controverted by the respondents.
The facts of this case are distinguishable from the facts involved in the decision of this Court in R.L. Butail v. Union of India & Ors. which is relied on by the respondents. 
In that case the confidential report of the appellant therein for the year 1964 contained an adverse entry and he had made a representation regarding it, When the Departmental Promotion Committee met in March, 1966, the appellant's representation regarding the adverse entry of 1964 was not placed before it and a decision adverse to the appellant was taken by the Committee without reference to the said representation. 
The  appellant contended before this Court that the omission to consider his representation before the date of meeting of the Committee vitiated its decision. 
The Court held that the omission either to place the said representation before the Committee or its non-consideration before the date of the meeting had no effect on the decision of the Committee as the representation had actually been rejected subsequently with the result that the confidential report for the year 1964 remained unchanged.
The position in the case before us is different. 
It may be pertinent to state here that the practice of the Departmental Promotion Committee referred to in Butail's case (supra) was that if in such a case a representation were to be accepted and in consequence the confidential report was altered or the adverse entries were expunged the Committee would have to review its recommendations in the light of such a result. 
After giving our anxious consideration to the uncontroverted material placed before us we have reached the conclusion that the case of the appellant for promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre has not been considered by the Committee in a just and fair way and his case has been disposed of contrary to the principles laid down in Gurdial Singh Fijji's case (supra).
The decisions of the Selection Committee recorded at its meetings in which the case of the appellant was considered are vitiated by reason of reliance being placed on the adverse remarks which were later on expunged.
The High Court committed an error in dismissing the petition of the appellant and its order is, therefore, liable to be set aside. 
We accordingly set aside the order of the High Court. We hold that the appellant has made out a case for reconsideration of the question of his promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre of the State of Bihar as on December 22, 1976 and if he is not selected as on that date for being considered again as on March 12, 1981.
If he is not selected as on March 12, 1981 his case has to be considered as on October 14, 1981. 
The Selection Committee has now to reconsider the case of the appellant accordingly after taking into consideration the orders passed by the State Government subsequently on any adverse entry that may have been made earlier and any other order of similar nature pertaining to the service of the appellant.
If on such reconsideration the appellant is selected he shall be entitled to the seniority and all other consequential benefits flowing therefrom. 
We issue a direction to the respondents to reconsider the case of the appellant as stated above. We hope that the above direction will be complied with expeditiously but not later than four months from today
Before concluding we wish to state that the Central Government and the State Governments should now examine whether the present system of maintenance of confidential rolls should be continued.
The predicament in which the officer against whom adverse remarks are made is then placed can easily be visualised.
Even the authority which has got to pass orders on the representation of the officer will find it difficult to deal with the matter satisfactorily after a long interval of time.
In the meanwhile the officer concerned would have missed many opportunities which would have advanced his prospects in the service. 
In order to avoid such a contingency, the Government may consider the introduction of a system in which the officer who has to make entries in the confidential roll may be required to record his remarks in the presence of the officer against whom remarks are proposed to be made after giving him an opportunity to explain any circumstance that may appear to be against him with the right to make representation to higher authorities against any adverse remarks. 
This course may obviate many times totally baseless remarks being made in the confidential roll and would minimise the unnecessary suffering to which the officer concerned will be exposed.
Another system which may be introduced is to ask the officer who records the confidential remarks to serve a copy of such remarks on the officer concerned before the confidential roll is submitted to the higher authorities so that his representation against the remarks may also reach the higher authority shortly after the confidential roll is received.
This would curtail the delay in taking action on the representation. 
The Executive itself should, therefore, devise effective means to mitigate the hardship caused to the officers who are subjected to such treatment.
These questions require to be examined afresh in the light of the experience gained in recent years and solutions should be found to eliminate as far as possible complaints against misuse of these powers by official superiors who may not be well disposed towards the officer against whom such action is taken. 
It is needless to state that a non-disgruntled bureaucracy adds to the efficiency of administration.
The appeal is accordingly allowed with costs.
H.S.K. Appeal allowed
While such an interpretation may be alright in the case of a factory which works all through the year, it would be hardly appropriate in the case of a factory which works during a particular season every year.
In the case of a factory which works seasonally during an accounting year, ' working days in any accounting year" can only mean those days of the year during which the employee concerned is actually allowed to work. 
and we think it is the proper interpretation.
Having regard to the scheme and the purpose of the Act, we do not think that the High Court was justified in placing a different construction on the meaning of the expression "working days in any accounting year. 
We, therefore, set aside the judgment of the High Court and restore the award of the Industrial Court. 
The bonus payable to the employees will carry interest at the rate of nine per cent per annum from the day when the bonus became due until the date of payment.
The appeal is allowed with costs.
N.V.K Appeal allowed