The learned District Magistrate found that the prosecution had established that the respondent had committed an offence under section 135(b) of the Customs Act and an offence under section 85 (ii) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 and convicted him of those offences. 
The respondent was sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- for the offence under section 135(b) of the Customs Act and in default of payment of fine to undergo simple imprisonment for six months. 
No separate sentence was, however, awarded for the offence under section 85(ii) of the Gold (Control) Act.
The respondent preferred an appeal against the judgment of the learned District Magistrate before the Sessions Judge, Trichur and that appeal was dismissed.  
The learned Judge of the High Court who heard the revision petition allowed it and set aside the conviction of the respondent and the sentence imposed on him on the ground that the prosecution had not established that the metallic bars which were seized from the respondent under Exh. P.1 were gold bars and, therefore, the conviction of the appellant could not be sustained. 
The learned Judge found that the evidence of PW 3 who was examined in the case, the statement Exh. P.2 made by the respondent before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode and the answer given by the respondent under section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code taken together were not sufficient to hold that the gold bars had been seized from the respondent under Exh.P.1. 
He rejected the evidence of PW 3 on the ground that he had not the training or the qualification in the art of testing gold and that he had not conducted either the furnace test or the specific gravity test to determine the character of the metallic bars. 
He was of the opinion that PW 3 had miserably failed in the witness box to give the impression that he was a competent person to certify that what were seized from the respondent were gold bars and that in the absence of any training or qualification to the credit of PW 3, it would be unsafe to rely on his evidence and conclude that what was seized from the respondent was gold. 
So far as Exh. P.2 was concerned the learned Judge was of the opinion that as the said statement had not been specifically put to the respondent under section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code and as the person who had recorded it had not been 230 examined, no importance could be given to it. 
In so far as the answer given by the respondent to the question put by the Court under section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which is set out above is concerned, the learned Judge observed that even assuming that it would have some value the prosecution could not seek to split that statement into various parts and rely on what it considered to be advantageous to establish its case. 
Accordingly the learned Judge acquitted the accused.
The delay in filing that application was condoned. 
The executing court upheld the plea of the judgment debtor, the appellant herein, relying upon sub-rule (3) of Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code and set aside the sale by its order dated February 20, 1979, since admittedly no such permission had been obtained by the decree holder. 
The application under Rule 90 of Order 21 of the Code was dismissed as not pressed. 
Another prayer made under Rule 89 of Order 21 of the Code was rejected on the ground that it had become infructuous. 
The District Judge dismissed the revision petition on October 13, 1980. 
The petition was allowed by the High Court holding that the case was governed by Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code as it was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh before the Amending Act came into force. 
It may be stated here that both the executing court and the District Judge had upheld the contention of the judgment debtor that on the commencement of the Amending Act by virtue of section 97(1) thereof the local amendment made to Rule 72 of Order of the Code prior to that date ceased to operate and the Code as amended by the Amending Act applied to the case. 
The High Court however took the view that since the Amending Act had not made amendment of any kind in so far as Rule 72 of Order 21 was concerned, the amendment made by the High Court of Allahabad to Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code prior to the commencement of the Amending Act remained intact.
21 The High Court did not say anything on the question of condonation of delay in making the application under Rule 72(3) of Order 21 of the Code. 
It however stated that the application under Rule 89 of Order 21 of the Code could still be considered by the executing court. 
The first appellate court which the matter was carried in appeal by the plaintiffs dismissed the appeal on the ground that the plaintiffs' suit was not maintainable inasmuch as due notice under Section 80 C.P.C. had not been given. 
A second appeal preferred by the appellants to the High Court at Patna did not meet with any success and it was dismissed in limine. 
On behalf of the appellants, strong reliance was placed on the decision of a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Kerala in Nani Amma Nannini Amma v. State of Kerala.(2) 
The Appellate Commissioner held that the value of the right to excavate the land in terms of money is included in the purchase price paid by the assessee for the land. 
He rejected the argument of the assessee that the cost of acquisition of the said assets could not be determined. 
He then proceeded to consider the cost of acqui- sition of such right and differing with the Income Tax Officer held that on the facts of the case the cost for the purpose of ascertaining the capital gains would be the total price of the land paid by the assessee, that is, Rs.27,260.
On all other points he upheld the order of the Income-tax Officer.
The Tribunal observed that the entire ownership of the property means the ownership of a bundle of rights and a limited interest which can be severed and disposed off for a speci- fied period in the form of lease or mortgage or the like is part of that bundle. 
According to the Tribunal the purchase price paid by the assessee for the land includes therein a component of purchase price attributable to various kinds of interests embedded in the said land.
The Tribunal confirmed the order of the Appellate Commissioner and dismissed the appeal.
600 Arising from the said decision of the Tribunal. 
The High Court opined that the right conferred on the lessee under the lease deed was also a capital asset in the hands of the assessee-lessor. 
By giving a liberal meaning to the word "transfer" in section 2(47) of the Act the High Court held that there was a transfer of capital asset for a consideration of Rs. 5 lakhs under the instrument dated 10th September, 1970. 
It was further held that the rights of owner of a land include a fight to grant the lease to ex- ploit the land. 
The High Court answered the two questions in the affirmative and against the assessee. 
The High Court granted a certificate under section 261 of the Act to appeal to this Court.
Mr. Harish Salve, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, without disputing that the grant of a lease would constitute a transfer of an ,asset, has raised the following two contentions:
601 (i) That conceptually there is no "cost of acquisition" which is attributable to the right of limited enjoyment transferred by the grant of the lease. 
There is no nexus between the "cost of acquisition" of the free-hold land and the right granted under the lease.
For the same reason it is contended that there is no question of apportionment of such "cost of acquisition".
(ii) That since the cost of acquisition of the right granted under the lease cannot be determined the computation provisions under the Act cannot apply at all and as such sec- tion 45 of the Act is not attracted.
Reliance for this contention is placed on the judgment of this Court in C.I.T.v.B.C. Srinivas Shetty, 128 ITR 294.
That suit was decided on June 5, 1950. 
By that judgment the Patna High Court declared that the Act was ultra vires and wholly void and an injunction was issued restraining the State Government from enforcing the Act. 
But the plaintiff in the case before us, however, on the basis of the judgment of the High Court demanded on June 9, 1950 that he should be put back in possession of the estate whose management had been taken over from him. 
At the conclusion of the trial, the trial court held that the cost of management incurred by defendant No 2 over and above 12.1/2% of gross collection was excessive and the dependents should refund such excess amount. 
Secondly, it held that the mistake in not notifying all the shares held by the plaintiff in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 3 at the first instance resulted in non collection of the dues and the plaintiff thereby had suffered. 
The trial court held that the defendants being trespassers, the plaintiff owed no duty to them to make available to them the separated Jamabandi to facilitate collection of dues in the said Tauzis. 
The trial court, therefore, held that the defendants should reimburse the plaintiff the amount he would have been able to collect from those tauzis during the period of their management.
Similarly, the defendants were liable to make good the loss caused on account of arrears or decrees which had been allowed to become barred. 
The trial court directed that a commissioner should enquire into the above items.
Accordingly a preliminary decree was passed.
Against the said preliminary decree the defendants filed an appeal before the High Court. 
Accordingly the Division Bench referred the case to a larger Bench on July 14, 1962. 
By its judgment dated February 15, 1963 the Full Bench overruled the earlier decision in MD. Sir Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar (supra) and declared that the Act was constitutional. 
The Division Bench which finally heard the appeal was of the view that though it was open to the State to notify only a fraction of an estate under section 3 (1) of the Act yet the defendants were not absolved from the duty of taking appropriate steps for the preparation of suitable collection papers in respect of the notified shares in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 300. 
It held that the defendants were liable to compensate the plaintiff for not preparing the collection papers in time.
The Division Bench further held that even though the plaintiff had been told to file suits for rents in respect of unnotified share of the estate, the defendants were negligent in the matter of issuing certificates for recovery, some Of which were later on struck off. 
The Division Bench also held that the material on the record did not indicate that necessary steps were taken by defendant No. 2 with regard to pending suits and execution proceedings and there was every 17 probability that loss had been suffered by the plaintiff on account of the inaction or failure to continue pending proceedings which amounted to wilful default and gross negligence. 
The Division Bench agreed with the trial court that the defendants were liable to reimburse the plaintiff to the extent of Rs. 2,000 levied as penalty for non-payment of Agricultural Income Tax. 
In so far as the cost of management of Rs. 43,507 which was in the order of 30 per cent of the gross collection was concerned while the trial court had allowed 12.112 per cent, the Division Bench allowed 25 per cent of the gross collection.
In other words the Division bench found that about Rs. 8,000 had been incurred as cost of management in excess of what was authorised. 
The Division Bench found that the plaintiff was entitled to it. 
The Division Bench held that section 31 of the Act did not give protection in respect of loss which was caused by wilful 540 default and gross negligence. 
The appeal of the defendants was accordingly dismissed. 
The cross objections of the plaintiff regarding certain matters disallowed by the trial court were also dismissed 
The High Court granted in his case also a similar certificate by She same order on December 10,1964 but the said certificate was later on cancelled by the High Court on July 6, 1965. 
The first ground on which the Division Bench has held that the A defendants were liable to pay damages is that defendant No. 2 had failed to get the collection papers prepared in respect of Tauzis Nos. 7/8 and 30 in time and thus caused loss to the plaintiff. 
it may be stated here that the Division Bench accepted that it was open to the Government to notify even a fraction of a tenure under section 3 (1) of the Act 
The High Court has observed thus: "It appears that it was on the basis of some arrears list submitted by the plaintiff of defendant No. 2 and without subjecting it to proper scrutiny, that a large number of certificate cases were hurriedly filed by the defendants at the time of the Tamadi in the middle of April 1950, and, it was, therefore, not strange that quite a large number of them had subsequently to be struck off, with the result that a considerable portion of the arrears of rents and profits of the plaintiff's estate remained unrealised and became time barred. 
It is manifest that the loss caused to the plaintiff's estate on this account was due to the inaction of defendant No. 2 amounting to wilful default and gross negligence on his part. 
The responsibility for such loss must undoubtedly lie with the defendants." 
(underlining by us) 
The trial court had held that it was due to the issue of a wrong notification at the first instance. 
The sum of Rs.51570 was proportioned in as much as two-third was ordered as payable to the original plaintiffs and the remaining one-third to the transposed co-plaintiff. 
In these circumstances, the execut- ing court ordered that both the valuations be incorporated in the sale proclamation. 
Later the petition under Order 21 Rule 90 C.P.C. was formally dismissed in default in the above backgrround. On September 14, 1968, the auction sale was confined.
The High Court rejected all the legal pleas otherwise raised but certified as fit questions as raised to be answered by this Court, without framing any one of them as such.
It was pointed out by Mr. Ganguli, learned counsel for the appellant that the preliminary decree dated July 25, 1962 was a preliminary decree for sale passed in terms of Order 34 Rule 4 of the kind covered under Clause (c) (i) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 2 and the final decree dated March 6. 1963 was final decree for sale under Order 34 Rule 5 (3) of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
The preliminary decrees for sale, details apart, besides striking the amount due payable in instalments, mentions the time for payment, further provides that in default of payment as provided, the plaintiff may apply to the Court for final decree for the sale of the mortgaged property; and on such application being made. 
The Court then ordered and decreed that the mortgaged property in the preliminary decree afore-mentioned, or a sufficient part thereof, be sold and that for the purpose of such sale, the plaintiff shall produce before the Court or such Officer,, as it appoints, all the documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property. 
It is on the strength of terms of both the decrees that Mr. Ganguli urged that the right to apply for the final decree arose from the terms of the preliminary decree and on the failure of the defendant making payments in terms thereof. 
And since the preliminary decree of July 25, 1962 was displaced and substituted by the preliminary decree passed by the High Court in appeal, which was instantly satisfied, the foundation under the final decree stood removed. 
It was further urged that the plain- tiff had lost the right to ask for a final decree, there was no compulsory need for the purpose or tee occasion to pass it.
It is also urged that the auction has become non-est having no legal foundation or sanction in law.
The well settled principle of the appeal being a continuation of the suit was pressed into service to contend that the final decree had no life of its own and could only be passed on an application moved by the plaintiff on the defendant's fail- ure to comply with the terms of the substituted preliminary decree. 
Mr. Nariman, learned counsel appearing for the respondents on the other hand contended that there could not be a reverse process when the final decree had factually been passed and an auction sale in terms thereof had taken place bringing in the rights of the stranger auctionpurchas- ers.
Further in terms of sub- clause (c)(ii) of Clause (1) of Rule 2, the Court held the plaintiffs entitled to apply for a final decree, debarring the defendant from all right to redeem the property. 
It was suggested that the plaintiffs and the defendants could not settle the suit without the consent and participation of the auction purchasers to their detriment. 
By its order dated May 13, 1974, the High Court of Calcutta issued a writ in the nature of mandamus to the respondents in that petition to consider the case of the petitioner for transfer back to his original place of posting in the Northern Region within two months from the date of the communication of that order. 
That petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Delhi on March 11, 1981. 
The case of the appellant is that since he had been reposted to the Northern Region with the seniority which he hold before he was transferred to the Eastern Region, the Corporation should consider his case for promotion to the higher cadre as on the date on which his immediate junior was promoted and if he is found fit he should be given such promotion and placed above his immediate junior in the seniority list. 
He also claims that he should be accorded all consequential benefits.
It is contended on behalf of the Corporation that since the promotion in question one to be made on the basis of selection, the appellant is not entitled to any relief.
The main point urged before us is that the Selection Committee had committed an illegality in rejecting the claim of the appellant for being included in the select list in the year 1976 by relying upon the adverse entries which had been made in his confidential rolls which had not been either communicated to him or against which he had made representation which had remained undisposed of and which had been subsequently expunged.
The true legal position governing such cases is laid down by this Court in Gurdial Singh Fijji v. State of Punjab & Ors,(') which was a case arising under the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by Promotion) Regulations, 1955 which more or less correspond to the Regulations applicable to the Indian Police Service. 
The appellant in the present case has pressed before us for a similar relief as the adverse entries made against him have been since expunged.
The Industrial Court decided in favour of the workers, but on a writ petition filed by the company, the award of the arbitrator was quashed and it was held that the workers were only entitled to proportionate bonus and not the minimum bonus 960 guaranteed by sec. 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.
The High Court has interpreted the words "working days in any accounting year" as meaning all those days of the year except holidays. 
That was the interpretation which was placed upon the expression by the Industrial Court  