The Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Calicut has filed this appeal after obtaining the special leave of this Court against the judgment and order dated January 5, 1973 of the High Court of Kerala in Criminal Revision Petition No. 426 of 1972.
Briefly stated, the facts of the case are these: In the early hours of August 9, 1969 the respondent alighted from the Kerala Express at the Trichur Railway Station with a steel trunk in his hand. 
PW 1, Inspector of Central Excise Special, Customs, Preventive, Trichur, who was on patrol duty at the Railway Station suspected that the respondent was carrying contraband goods and on coming to know from the Ticket Examiner that the respondent had arrived from Bombay he asked the respondent to hand over the steel trunk which he was carrying.
When PW 1 opened and searched the steel trunk, he found in it 28 gold bars with foreign markings.
The respondent was arrested by PW 1 and when questioned by P.W. 1, the respondent did not produce any authorisation entitling him to keep the 28 gold bars in question which were valued at Rs. 56,030/-. 
A mahazar (Exh. P.1) was prepared for having seized the 28 gold bars. 
A sum of Rs. 1,380/- which was found in the steel trunk was also seized. 
Later on, it is stated, that the 28 gold bars in question were confiscated in a proceeding under section 111(d) of the Costoms Act, 1962 read with section 23-A of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 before the Additional Collector of Customs, Cochin. 
The steel trunk also was confiscated under section 119 of the Customs Act, 1962. 
A penalty of Rs. 500/- was imposed on the respondent under section 112(b) of the Customs Act, 1962. 
The amount of Rs. 1380/- which had been seized from the respondent was, however, ordered to be returned to him. 
Thereafter the Assistant Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Kozhikode after obtaining the required sanction under section 137(1) of the Customs Act and section 97(1) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 from the Additional Collector of Customs, Cochin and the Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Cochin respectively filed a complaint before the District Magistrate (Judicial), Tellicherry against the respondent for offences punishable under section 135(b) of the Customs Act read with section 85(ii) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968. 
In support of the said prosecution four witnesses were examined by the complainant. 
PW 1 gave evidence about the seizure of the 28 gold bars with foreign markings from the respondent at the Trichur Railway Station on August 9, 1969 under the mahazar (Exh. P.1).
He also produced Exh. P.2 which contained the statement made by the respondent before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode in which he had admitted that 28 gold bars with foreign markings had been seized from him under a mahazar and that the said 28 gold bars had not been legally imported to India. 
PW 1 stated that he was present before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode when Exh. P.2 was recorded and that the said statement contained the signatures of the respondent and of the Superintendent who had recorded it. 
K. Subramonian (P.W. 2) who was working as a Ticket Collector at Trichur Railway Station stated that the 28 gold bars in question were seized on August 9,1969 at the Trichur Railway Station under the mahazar (Exh. P.1) which he had signed.
PW 3 who was a resident of Trichur and a goldsmith by profession stated that the 28 gold bars in question had been examined and weighed by him at the Trichur Railway Station at the request of PW 1. 
He further stated that he tested the purity of the said 28 gold bars by rubbing them on the touch-stone and found that they were gold bars of 24 carats quality. 
He gave a certificate (Exh. P.3) regarding the purity and the weight of the 28 gold bars. 
PW 3 who was a certified goldsmith further stated that he could by experience assess the purity of gold by rubbing it on a touch-stone. 
He, however, stated that he had no technical knowledge about gold and he did not know the 'specific gravity' method by which the purity of gold could be determined. 
The Assistant Collector of Central Excise (P.W.4) was examined to prove the sanctions given by the competent authorities to file the case. 
In his examination under section 342 of Criminal Procedure Code in answer to the following question put by the Court: 'What have you to say about the deposition of P.W.1 that you on 9th August, 1969 at 7 O'clock in the moring alighted from train at Trichur Railway Station with a steel trunk and that P.W.1 on searching the box due to suspicion, found out 28 gold bars having foreign marks ?' 
the respondent stated 'It is true that gold was recovered from my box. 
It was not mine. 
It was handed over to me by the person called Mammu asking me to give it in his house. 
I had no knowledge that it was gold.' 
The respondent filed a revision petition before the High Court of Kerala against the decision of the learned Sessions Judge: 
The principal point which arises for consideration in this case is whether the prosecution had established that smuggled gold bars had been seized from the respondent on August 9, 1969 at the Trichur Railway Station under Exh. P.1. 
In the instant case, however, the respondent did not dispute that gold had been recovered from his box under Exh. P.1. 
His plea was that it was true that gold was recovered from his box but that it did not belong to him; that it had been handed over by a person called Mammu asking him to give it in his house and that he had no knowledge that it was gold when the packet containing it was handed over to him. 
These gold bars were seized by P.W.1 in the reasonable belief that they were smuggled goods.
P.W.1 has stated that the said gold bars had foreign markings on them and Exh. P.1, the mahazar corroborated his statement. 
It is in evidence that the said gold bars were found packed in paper and kept in the inside folds of a blanket underneath some clothes in the trunk seized from the respondent. 
He had taken care to secrete them. 
He had brought them from Bombay which was a customs area.
We are principally concerned in this case with the effect of section 97 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 (104 of 1976) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Amending Act') on any amendment made or any provision inserted in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code') by a State Legislature or a High Court prior to the commencement of the Amending Act, i.e., prior to February 1, 1977 in the different local areas in India where the Code is in force if they be inconsistent with the provisions of the Code as amended by the Amending Act.
By the Amending Act several amendments were carried out to the Code on the basis of the recommendations of the Indian Law Commission which had considered extensively the provisions of the Code before it submitted its 54th Report in 1973. 
By the time the Law Commission took up for consideration the revision of the Code, there were in force in different parts of India several amendments to the Code which had been effected by the State Legislatures or by the High Courts. 
The subject of civil procedure being in Entry 13 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, it is open to a State Legislature to amend the Code insofar as its State is concerned in the same way in which it can make a law which is in the Concurrent List. 
As mentioned earlier, before the Amending Act came into force on February 1, 1977 many of the provisions of the Code and the First Schedule had been amended by the State Legislatures or the High Courts as the case may be and such amended provisions had been brought into force in the areas over which they had jurisdiction. 
When the Amending Act was enacted making several changes in the Code Parliament also enacted section 97 providing for repeals and savings and the effect of the changes on pending proceedings.
This appeal by special leave is filed against the judgment dated April 9, 1985 in Civil Miscellaneous Writ Petition No. 2754 of 1981 on the file of the High Court of Allahabad.
20 Jamuna Chaubey, respondent No. 3 herein obtained a decree for recovery of money of July 29, 1977 against the appellant Ganpat Giri in Original Suit No. 359 of 1973 on the file of the Munsiff East, Balia. 
In execution of the said decree the immovable property belonging to the appellant was brought to sale by court on August 4, 1978 and at that court sale respondent No.3 was declared as the successful bidder. 
Before the sale was confirmed, on August 12, 1978 the appellant filed an application for setting aside the sale under Rule 90 of Order 21 of the Code on several grounds. 
Later on he made an application stating that the sale was liable to set aside as respondent No. 3 who was the decree holder had not obtained the permission of the executing court under Rule 72(1) of Order 21 of the Code. 
Aggrieved by the decision of the executing court respondent No. 3 filed a revision petition before the District Judge, Balia under the provisions of section 115 of the Code (as amended by section 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act 1978 with effect from August 1, 1972). 
Against the decision of the District Judge respondent No. 3 filed a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Allahabad. 
In this appeal by special leave the order of the High Court is questioned.
The question whether Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code required any modification was considered by the Law Commission before it made its recommendation in its 54th Report. 
Having observed this, it proceeded to recommend that a new rule 72-A may be added to Order 21 in which there was reference to sub-rules (2) and (3) of Rule 72 in sub-rule (3) of Rule 72-A.
The short question that arises for consideration in this appeal by special leave concerns the true scope and application of Section 80 of the Civil Procedure Code.
The appellants herein are the plaintiffs in a suit instituted in the Munsiff's Court, Bihar Sharif, seeking the reliefs of declaration of title and delivery of possession with mesne profits in respect of the properties described in the plaint. 
The State of Bihar-the 1st respondent herein is the main defendant in the suit. 
Prior to the institution of the suit, the plaintiffs had issued a notice to the 1st 311 respondent-State-under section 80 C.P.C. on 18.2.1969 and Exhibit 2 is a copy of the said notice.
However, without waiting for the statutory period of two months, the plaintiffs instituted the suit on 2.4.1969.
In the written statement filed on behalf of the State of Bihar, it was contended, inter alia, that the suit was not maintainable for want of proper notice under Section 80 C.P.C. 
Hence this appeal by the plaintiffs.
It was contended before the Privy Council, relying on some early decisions of before the Privy Council, relying on some early decisions of High Court of Bombay, that because one of the reliefs claimed in the suit was the grant of a perpetual injunction and the claim for the said relief would have become infructuous if the plaintiffs were to wait for the statutory period of two months prescribed in Section 80 C.P.C. before they filed the suit, the rigour of the Section should be relaxed by implication of a suitable exception or a qualification in respect of a suit for emergent relief, such as one for injunction. 
The question in this appeal is whether the grant of a mining lease for a period of ten years by the assessee can give rise to a capital gain taxable under section 45 of Income-tax Act, 1961.
599 The assessee, a body of individuals, purchased two pieces of land in the year 1966 measuring 14.55 acres at a price of Rs.27,260. 
By an instrument of lease-cum-licence dated 10th September, 1970 they granted a mining lease in favour of M/s. Sri Krishna Tiles and Potteries (Madras) Private Limited (hereinafter called the 'Company'), an allied concern of the assessee. 
The lease was for a period of 10 years and the lessee had to pay a premium or salami of Rs.5 lakhs in addition to the payment of royalty of Rs. 12 per hundred cubic ft. of clay extracted subject to a minimum of Rs.60,000 per year.
The Income-tax Officer construed the lease deed as transferring a lease-hold interest in the land in favour of the company and came to the conclusion that the transfer was assessable to capital gains tax. 
For the purpose of comput- ing the extent of tax the Income-tax Officer assessed the market value of the entire land at Rs.8 lakhs. 
Since the lease-hold interest was transferred for a sum of Rs.5 lakhs, he valued the lease-hold interest at 5/8th of the sale price of the entire land. 
On that basis the Income-tax Officer computed the cost of acquisition of the lease-hold interest at Rs. 17,040, being 5/8th of Rs.271,260. 
Thereafter deduct- ing Rs. 17,040 from the sale consideration of Rs.5 lakhs, he treated the sum of Rs.4,82,960 as long-term capital gains.
The assessee preferred an appeal to the Appellate As- sistant Commissioner. 
The assessee preferred an appeal to the Tribunal. 
The following two questions were referred to the High Court for determination:
(i) Whether, on the facts and in the cir- cumstances of this case, the instrument of lease dated September 10, 1970 effected the transfer of a capital asset within the meaning of section 45 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and, accordingly, liable to capital gains tax?
(ii)Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal is right in law in holding that the cost of lease hold right is capable of valuation and, as such, capital gains can be computed?
The Income-tax Officer in this case worked out the cost of lease hold interest by adopting the 5/8th ratio, though the Appellate Commissioner gave the benefit to the Assessee of the Full Price of the land paid by him. 
This appeal by certificate under Article 133 (1) (a) of the Constitution arises out of an action in tort for damages for trespass and unauthorised interference by the defendants with the A proprietary interest of the plaintiff. 
The defendants were the State of Bihar and J.P. Mukherjee, an officer in the service of the Bihar Government.
The plaintiff, Prithwi Chand Lall Choudhary was the karta of a Hindu joint family which owned extensive properties collectively known as the "Raj Nazarganj". 
The said properties were spread over the District of Purnea and some other districts in the State of Bihar as also in the State of West Bengal. 
The plaintiff was the recorded proprietor of several tauzis situated in the Districts of Purnea and Monghyr and also the proprietor of several tenures and patnis within the said Districts. 
The plaintiff was liable to pay about Rs. 2,50,000 by way of taxes, cesses etc. annually.
In the year 1949, the Bihar Legislature passed a law known as the Bihar State Management of Estates and Tenures Act, 1949 (Bihar Act XXI of 1949) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') to provide for the management of estates and tenures in the Province of Bihar. 
It received the assent of the Governor-General on September 29, 1949 and was published in the Bihar Gazette Extraordinary of October 17, 1919. 
On the coming into force of the Constitution of January 26, 1950, the Act was certified by the President in exercise of his powers conferred by Article 31 (6) of the Constitution.
By a notification dated November 19, 1949 issued under section 3 (1) of the Act the estate of the plaintiff i.e. the 'Raj Nazarganj Estate' was taken under the management of the State Government. J P Mukherjee, defendant No. 2, who was the Additional Collector of Darbhanga, was appointed as the Manager of the said estate. 
In the meanwhile the Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga, Sir Kameshwar Singh filed a suit in the Civil Court challenging the validity of the Act as his estate also had been similarly notified under section 3 (1) of the Act. 
That suit was withdrawn by the Patna High Court being tried in its Extraordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction. 
The judgment of the High Court in that suit is reported as M.D. Sir Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar.(1) 
Against that judgment, the State of Bihar preferred an appeal before this Court. 
On July 3, 1950 the then Collector by his letter informed the plaintiff that the Government had decided to relinquish charge of the estates A and tenures of the plaintiff and that the plaintiff should cooperate in taking over charge by July 15, 1950.
On July 6, 1950 the Government had already cancelled the notification s issued under section 3 (1) of the Act.
The charge of collection papers was handed by the middle of July, 1950. 
The abstracts and synopsis of accounts were given on August 7, 1950. 
About Rs. 1, 46,00" had been collected on behalf of the estate during the Government's management. 
After the estate was thus handed over to him, the plaintiff filed a suit on September 21, 1951 in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Purnea for damages of Rs. 2,00,000 for wrongful and illegal interference with the plaintiff's estates and tenures and for other consequential reliefs.
The plaint proceeded on the basis that the Act was unconstitutional as declared by the High Court earlier and that taking over of the possession and management of the estate etc. was illegal. 
The plaintiff pleaded that the Act having been declared void, the defendants were liable for not only the amount of loss actually suffered by the plaintiff but were also liable to recoup the amount spent by them during their management of the estate which was wrongful. 
It was alleged that the action of the defendants suffered from negligence, bad faith and malice. 
The plaint claimed that the defendants were liable jointly and severally as tort feasors for all such losses suffered by him. In paragraph 27 of the plaint the plaintiff set out broadly the grounds of his claim thus: (a) that due to gross negligence and wilful default the defendants contravened the provisions of section 3 (1) in notifying and taking possession of part only of plaintiff interests in Estates and Tenures and in omitting to notify other parts of his Estates and Tenures on the first occasion when the notification dated November 19, 1949 was issued the Government was unable to realise all the rents and other dues, (b) that due to wrong notification and omission to notify all parts of his Estates and Tenures and also on account of amalgamated rentals maintained by the plaintiff in respect of his estates and tenures, the plaintiff could not fully realise the balance share of unnotified estates and tenures, (c) that certain rents and decrees had been allowed to become barred by time and (d) that on account of non payment of Agricultural Income Tax and consequent imposition of penalty which was no doubt reduced to Rs.2,000 on appeal the Estate suffered a loss of Rs. 2,000.
He also pleaded that on account of the issue of wrong collection certificates by defendant No. 2 and his staff the plaintiff had suffered some loss which was yet to be ascertained.
In the written statement the defendants traversed all the material allegations in the plaint. 
They pleaded inter alia that the notification was issued in November, 1949 on the basis of the requisition of the Collector, P.K.J. Menon and that defendant No. 2 was appointed as Manager by that notification. 
The allegations of negligence, bad faith and malice were denied. 
The defendants pleaded that on the basis of information available in the records of the Government the notification was issued in November, 1949 and at the request of the plaintiff after verification second notification was issued on March 16, 1950, and that plaintiff requested for the issue of the second notification in order to escape the processes of law which had been taken out against him by his creditors and to shield his entire properties from the creditors. 
In fact the Government appointed the very collecting agents who were working under the plaintiff and after the management was handed back he reappointed them as his collecting agents. 
The plaintiff had accepted without protest the final accounts which had been prepared at the end of the period of management. Tauzis Nos. 7/8, 30 and 38 about which there was some dispute remained all along with the plaintiff and the collection papers pertaining to them were made over to defendant No. 2 only in the latter part of April, 1950 and if no collection could be made prior thereto in the said area till then the defendants could not be blamed.
The defendants pleaded that they had bona fide carried out their duties.
One fact which requires to be noted here is that the plaint did not have any reference to the effect of section 31 of the Act which is set out above, but it proceeded on the basis that the Act was unconstitutional. 
When the appeal came up before a Division bench of the High Court, the defendants contended that the decision of the High Court in which the Act had been declared as unconstitutional required to be reconsidered by the High Court in view of some later decisions of this Court. 
The case was then heard by a Full Bench of five learned Judges of the Patna High Court. 
The appeal was then referred back to the Division Bench for disposal in accordance with the opinion of the Full Bench.
Aggrieved by the decree passed by the High Court, the State of Bihar applied for a certificate under Article 133 (1) (a) of the Constitution in S.C.A. No. 137/63 on the file of the High Court to file an appeal before this Court.
On the HIGH Court granting the certificate accordingly on December 10,1961, the State of Bihar has filed the above appeal. 
The plaintiff also applied for a similar certificate in S.C.A No. 1/64 on the file of the High Court to file an appeal against the decree in so far as it had gone against him. 
In this appeal, the constitutionality of the Act is not questioned before us.
On going through the record of the case, we find that the following facts are established. 
The notification issued on November 19,1949 under section 3 (1) of the Act referred to the name of the proprietor, the name of the estate, tauzi numbers of the estate and the share of the proprietor in the tauzis. Defendant No. 2, J.P. Mukherjee who was then the Additional Collector of Purnea was appointed as the Manager of the estate. On December 14, 1949, the plaintiff was informed by the Collector at Purnea that the management of the estate was to commence from December 30, 1949 and that he should produce before the Manager a list of villages included in the estate and also the Jamabandis, Karchas and Wasil Baukis upto date before December 27,1949 and also to make over a complete and clear list of the papers showing Jamabandis of each village, the arrears collected and the arrears outstanding before the commencement of the management under the Act. 
He was requested to cooperate in the matter and was also informed that if he did not do so the responsibility for any loss would be his. On December 27, 1949 the plaintiff wrote a letter to the Collectorate. 
In that he stated that the work of handing over papers properly of a big and complicated estate was not an easy task and it would certainly take a considerable number of days to complete it. 
He pointed out that the Government had committed an error in taking over the management of only 2A-11A-2C-2K 541 share out of Tauzi No 7/8 under the notification, because the collection papers had been maintained for 5-12. 1 /2 and odd share in respect said of the said tauzi. 
He pleaded that unless the whole of 5-12.1/2 share was notified, the work of separation of the notified share from the notified share could not be completed even within a period of six months. 
He, therefore, asked for the modification of the notification. 
Then we find that the plaintiff had met the Collector many times when the affairs of the estate were discussed. 
On March I 1,195 ', the Collector wrote the following letter to the plaintiff: "District Office, Purnea The 11th March. 
1950 My dear Raja Saheb, 1. With reference to our discussions on the 7th March. 
1950, the following action may be taken with regard to the notified and unnotified portions of your estate as agreed to between us.
2. We will not be taking over the unnotified portion until the notification is made. 
As soon as a notification is made we will take over these portions. 
Meanwhile in order to see that no limitation occurs with regard to any rent payable to you, you are requested to prepare a copy of arrear list for the unnotified portions.
3. With regard to Tauzi No. 7, sufficient number of Tahsildars and other staff required may be employed after selection on the 14th of March, 1950, at Kishanganj, by the Additional Collector and by your Circle Officer. 
A certain number of these, according to the proportion that is notified will be selected by the Additional Collector and paid by Government. 
You are requested to employ a certain number according to the proportion of the unnotified interest.
These staff together may be put on the job of preparing the arrear list.
4. If notification is made before the Tamadi Day, we will arrange to issue certificates in respect of arrears due. 
If, however, notification for some reason or other is not made, then we will arrange to file joint suits for these arrears before the Tamds Day.
Yours sincerely,  sd/- (Illeg ) 13/3 Raja P.C. Lal Choudhuri, C.B.E. Nazarganj Palace, Purnea City. 
A supplementary notification was issued on March 16, 1950 as desired by the plaintiff. 
Then we find that there is some further discussion and correspondence between the plaintiff and the Manager. 
On April 7,1950, the Manager wrote to the plaintiff that he had been able to persuade the Government to advance Rs. 35,000 to meet the expenses of suits to be field for recovery of rents due to the estate. 
The plaintiff replied to that letter on the same date appreciating the step taken by the Government in advancing Rs. 35,000 as loan to the estate. 
On April 14,1950, the Manager sent a telegram to the plaintiff stating that since he had not cooperated in sending the previous records of cases in time in respect of Tauzi No. 7/8, it was not possible to file joint suits in respect of both the notified share and the unnotified share and that he was responsible for filing Tamadi suits in respect of the unnotified share in Tauzi No. 718. 
The defendant No. 2 in his evidence has stated that he could not make any collection in Tauzis Nos. 7/8 and 30 prior to the second notification because the collection papers were with the plaintiff and they were actually received by him on April 24,.1950. 
By the middle of July, 1950, the management of the estate itself was relinquished. 
We shall now deal with the specific findings recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court.
In the present case defendant No. 2 did call upon the plaintiff to submit the documents from which it was possible to find out the ability of persons in respect of the notified share in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 30. 
The plaintiff pleaded that he had not maintained such separate set of' accounts and that it would take a long time to prepare it. 
He, how- ever, produced the registers by the end of April, 1950 only, after the remaining shares were also notified. 
On the other hand he recommended that the unnotified share also should be notified as desired by the plaintiff and such notification was also issued.  
By the time steps could be taken to prepare the collections papers the Act had been struck down by the High Court.
Then steps were taken to hand over the estate back to the plaintiff. 
The third ground that defendant No. 2 had not diligently attended to any pending proceeding is also not made out since no specific case is dealt with by the High Court which prima facie established that charge.
With regard to the penalty of Rs. 2,000 imposed for non-payment of the Agricultural Income Tax it is seen that a penalty of Rs. 5,000 was first imposed as the plaintiff was unable to pay the Agricultural Income Tax in time because he could not collect arrears in time. 
In fact on the intervention of the Collector it was reduced to Rs.2,000. 
Even then it was too remote to the management of the notified estate by defendant No. 2. 
It is seen that the estate had to be returned prematurely to the plaintiff Owing to the judgment of the High Court declaring the Act as unconstitutional within a period of about seven months. 
But since defendant No. 2 had offered to refund any expenditure incurred in excess of 25% of the gross collections to the plaintiff, defendant No.
I has to pay back Rs. 8,000 to the plaintiff.
This appeal by certificate, poses an impor- tant question of law, as to whether, a court sale held in execution of a final decree, passed in a suit for recovery of mortgage money, can be upset under the provisions of section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, on the displace- ment of the preliminary decree upon which such final decree was based.
The question of law emerges on the facts summarized as follows:
Raja Abhoy Narain Deb was the owner of premises no. I 17-A, Rash Behari Avenue statedly a fashionable quarter of Calcutta, built on an area approximating 1 Bigha 6 cottahs, with three storied building on it consisting of 32 spacious rooms and two out houses. 
On the demise of Raja Abhoy Narain Deb, the appellant herein, and the proforma respondents, succeeded as heirs to the same on September 15, 1949. 
The appellant and his co-heirs mortgaged their two-third inter- est in the said property as security for a loan of Rs.27,000 obtained from the mortgagor Smt. Prokashini Biswas, the  predecessor-in-interest of the plaintiffs-respondents. 
After her death some of the heirs and legal representatives of Smt. Biswas, on March 13, 1961, filed a mortgage suit for the recovery of the mortgage money etc. in the court of the 3rd Subordinate Judge at Alipore, being title Suit No.17 of 1961, seeking enforcement and sale of the mortgaged property. 
To this suit the left out heir of Smt. Biswas, original- ly arrayed as a defendant, was transposed as a co-plaintiff.
On July 25, 1962, the trial court passed a preliminary decree in the sum of Rs.27000 for the principal sum and a sum of Rs.24570 for interest on the said principal, totall- ing Rs.51570, together with costs. 
The decree stipulated that the mortgagors were allowed to pay the decrectal amount in 15 equal annual instalments, to be deposited by the 30th June of each year, in the afore-mentioned proportions of two- third and one-third, to the credit of the respective mortga- gee-plaintiffs; the first instalment being payable by August 31, 1962. 
The mortgagee-plaintiffs were also allowed interest on the sums due from the date of institution-of the suit till the date of realisation of the entire sum. 
It was further stipulated that in default of any one of the instal- ments, the mortgagee-plaintiffs were at liberty to apply for making the decree final, and in the event of such applica- tion being made the mortgaged property, or a sufficient part thereof, shall be directed to be sold, and for such purpose all necessary steps were required to be taken by the plain- tiffs-mortgagees. 
On December 18, 1962, the present proforma respondent no.8, Kumar Sudhendu Narain Deb, filed F.A. No.902 of 1964 against the aforesaid preliminary decree in the Calcutta High Court praying as well for stay of execution of the decree, which prayer was ultimately declined. 
Some deposits, however, were made to feed the preliminary decree but since there was a failure to deposit in the terms there- of, a final decree was passed by the Court of the 3rd Subor- dinate Judge, Alipore on March 6, 1963, even though F.A. No.
902 of 1964, the appeal against the preliminary decree, was pending in the High Court.
The group of the decree-holders representing two-third interest filed an execution petition for realisation of their own share under the decree 240 which was followed by another execution petition of the remaining decree-holder representing one-third interest, seeking realisation of his onethird share of the decreetal amount. 
Both the execution petitions contained identical prayers for sale of the mortgaged property. 
The execution petitions were consolidated and numbered as Execution Peti- tions 11 and 13 of 1963 respectively. 
On August 10, 1963, proclamation of sale was drawn, apparently in the presence of parties. 
The decree-holders suggested the value of the mortgaged property as Rs.75,000. 
The appellant herein put its value at Rs.3 lacs. 
The sale, however, did not take place till March 15, 1968 and a period of over 4 % years passed by in the mean time. 
By that time, the value of the property, according to the appellant, had risen to Rs.6 lacs for which on March 4, 1968, before the sale, the appellant made a regular objection under section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
Within the intervening period of 4 1/2 years, some more deposits apparently were made by the appel- lant. 
The property was all the same sold on March 15, 1968, on the proclamation of sale as was drawn on August 10, 1963, for Rs. 1,00,500 in favour of the auction purchasers re- spondents 6 & 7 herein. 
On April 11, 1968, the appellant yet filed an application under Order 21 Rule 90 C.P.C. for selling aside the sale and prayed for stay of its confirma- tion basically on three grounds:

(i) the judgment-debtors had no saleable interest in the mortgaged property;

(ii) legally two execution petitions could not be consoli- dated; and (iii) the provisions of section 35 of the Bengal Money Lenders' Act had been overlooked.
This petition was treated as a part of the original objection under section 47 C.P.C. 
On April 11, 1968, the objection under section 47 C.P.C. was dismissed by the executing court against which the appellant preferred an appeal before the Calcutta High Court being F.M.A. No.624 of 1968. 
In F.M.A. No.902 of 1964, the appeal against the prelim- inary decree, the parties arrived at a settlement on Decem- ber 13, 1971 before the Calcutta High Court. 
In place of the preliminary decree dated July 25, 1962 a new preliminary decree on settlement between the parties, was passed by a division bench of the High Court, whereunder the decrectal amount was principally agreed not to exceed Rs.54000 being the double 241 of the original debt of Rs.27000. 
The sums deposited by the appellant, under interim orders of the court from time to time to the credit of the decree-holders, were adjusted and the final amount struck as unpaid was put at Rs.44000 regarding which claim of the morttgagees was conceded by the appellant-mortgager as well as to the manner of its payment, and which sum in fact was deposited by him in Court, for not only simultaneous passing of the decree but recording as well it satisfaction. 
Having cleared off in this manner the mortgage debt, the appellant in his appeal F.M.A. 624 of 1968, preferred against the rejection of objection raised the additional legal ground that after the displacement of the original preliminary decree by substitution the final decree did not survive, and so did succumb the auction sale, posing amongst others the question set out in the opening paragraph of the judgment. 
The appellant is an employee of the Food Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation'). 
For purposes of administrative convenience the entire territory of India in which the Corporation carries on its operations is divided into several Regions.
The appellant was working as a Godown Keeper in the Northern Region in the year 1961. 
At his request the appellant was transferred to the Eastern Region on March 1, 1961. 
In July, 1962, a circular was issued by the Government of India to the effect that an officer who was transferred from one Region to another at his own request should be treated as a fresh entrant in the cadre to which he belonged in the latter Region for the purpose 8 of seniority, that is, his seniority should be reckoned only from the date of joining duty in a particular post in the new Region and as such he would not be entitled to claim the benefit of service in the particular post in the former Region for the purpose of seniority in the same post in the latter Region to which he was transferred. 
The circular also stated that it would apply to all cases of transfers of officials made on or after March 1, 1960. 
In the seniority list dated November 1, 1969, the name of the appellant appeared against S. No. 261 but in the seniority list dated May 10, 1972, the appellant's name was shown against S. N.266. 
In view of the seniority list dated May 10, 1972, four persons who had been considered to be juniors to the appellant earlier were promoted in supersession of the claims of the appellant. The appellant made several representations to the authorities concerned against his supersession in which he questioned the applicability of the above said circular issued in July, 1962 to him.
Since the appellant was not given any reply, he filed a petition Civil Rule No. 6044 (W)/72 under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Calcutta on July 14, 1972. 
In that petition, he prayed for a writ in the nature of mandamus directing the respondents therein, namely, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of India, the Regional Director (Food), Eastern Region, Government of India, the Joint Manager (Port Operations) and the Zonal Manager (Eastern Zone), Food Corporation of India to forbear from giving effect to the aforementioned circular in his case or in the alternative to transfer him back to his original place of posting in the Northern Region with his former seniority.
After some correspondence, the Joint Personnel Manager of the Corporation at New Delhi wrote to the zonal Manager (E) of the Corporation at Calcutta that the seniority position of appellant in the Northern Region prior to his transfer to the Eastern Region would be restored to him.
The Zonal Manager, Calcutta conveyed the above information to the appellant by his letter dated September 1, 1976.
Thereafter the appellant was transferred to the Northern Region in November, 1976.
After he joined his post in the Northern Region, the appellant realised that some of his juniors had been promoted to higher positions during the period when he had been working in the Eastern Region. 
He, therefore, made a representation on September 4, 1978 to the Managing Director of the Corporation that his cases for promotion to the higher cadre should be considered with effect from the date on which his immediate junior had been promoted.
He made a further representation to the Personnel manager of the Corporation, on August 27, 1979 making a similar request.
On January 20, 1980, he wrote to the Manager (Establishment) of the Corporation about his grievance and on January 30, 1980 to the Zonal Manager (North) of the Corporation.
As these representations yielded no result, the appellant filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Delhi in C.W.P. No. 371/81.
This appeal by special leave is preferred against the aforesaid order of the High Court.
In this Court, the Corporation has filed a counter affidavit the deponent of which is Shri Madhusudan, Deputy Manager (Admn.), of the Corporation. 
In the said counter affidavit, it is admitted that before the appellant was re- transferred to the Northern Region, he had been given an assurance that his seniority in the Northern Region prior to his transfer to the Eastern Region would be restored. 
It is further stated that the case of the appellant was placed before the Zonal Promotion Committee of the Corporation at its meeting held on December 5, 1977 for considering his case for promotion to the post of Assistant Manager (Depot) against 1970 panel wherein his juniors were empanelled.
As the Confidential Reports relating to the appellant for the years 1966 to 1968 were not available for assessment of his suitability, the Zonal Promotion Committee deferred his case but the appellant was, however, empanelled against 1976 panel on the basis of the available reports. 
The Confidential Reports for the years 1966 to 1968 were later on traced and the case of the appellant was again placed before the Zonal Promotion Committee at its meeting held in May, 1979 for considering his claim for inclusion in 10 the 1970 panel. 
Thereupon the Zonal Promotion Committee passed a cryptic resolution to the effect that `on the basis of records of his service, his case cannot be reopened'. 
It may be mentioned here that the appellant was not informed by the Corporation that the Zonal Promotion Committee had found him unsuitable for being included in the 1970 panel.
The records pertaining to the proceedings of the Zonal Promotion Committee are not also placed before us. 
As mentioned earlier when the case of the appellant came up before the Zonal Promotion Committee for the first time on December 5, 1977, it deferred the consideration of the case of the appellant on the ground that the relevant Confidential Reports were not available.
This is an appeal by special leave against the order dated October 5,1982 in C.W.J.C. No.1420 of 1982 on the file of the High Court of Patna dismissing the petition filed by the appellant under Article 226 of the Constitution.
The facts of the case are these:  
The appellant was directly recruited and appointed as a Deputy Superintendent of Police in the Police Department of the State of Bihar in the year 1964.
In 1973 he was eligible to be considered for appointment as a member of the Indian Police Service under the provisions of the Indian Police Service 301 (Recruitment) Rules, 1954 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Rules') read with the Indian Police Service (Appointment by Promotion) Regulations, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Regulations') framed under sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 of the Rules. 
His case was placed before the Committee constituted under Regulation 4 of the Regulations for the purpose of preparation of the list of suitable officers for promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre of the State of Bihar in 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976.
In the years 1973, 1974 and 1975, he could not be included in the select list as he was junior to those who were included in the select list. 
In the year 1976 his name was not included in the select list as there was an adverse entry in his confidential roll of 1973-74. 
The reasons given by the Committee for superseding the appellant based on the confidential roll were these: "Delayed disposal of pending papers and supervision notes. Inadequate control over office, judgment, initiative, sense of responsibility and management reported tobe just fair. Censured by State Govt. order dt. 20th Oct., 1975."
The Selection Committee took the decision to supersede the appellant at its meeting held on December 22, 1976 in view of the above entry in the confidential roll of the appellant. 
It is not disputed that the said adverse entry was communicated to the appellant in the year 1977 after the above meeting was over. 
It appears that there were also adverse entries in the annual confidential roll of the appellant for the year 1974-75. They were communicated to the appellant in the year 1976. 
The appellant made representations in respect of both the adverse entries in time. 
His main grievance was that they had been made by his official superior who was biased against him.
The adverse entry made in the confidential roll for the year 1973-74 was expunged by the State Government on December 3, 1980 and the adverse entries in the confidential roll for the year 1974- 75 were expunged by two orders dated February 21, 1978 and October 7, 1980. 
There was no meeting of the Selection Committee from 1977 to 1980. 
It, however, met on March 11/12, 1981. 
On this occasion the appellant represented to the Committee that the adverse entries in his confidential rolls had been removed by the State Government by various orders and requested them to consider his case for promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre.
On this occasion the Committee did not look into the confidential rolls of the appellant for the years 1979-80 and 1980-81 which contained entries very favourable to the appellant for no fault of the appellant. 
The Committee, however, classified him as 'good' but did not include him in the select list while some of his juniors were included. 
The appellant represented to the Committee and the State Government against the decision taken by the Committee.
The Committee again met on October 14, 1981. 
When nothing came out of the representations made by him, the appellant filed a writ petition questioning the validity of the decisions of the Selection Committee before the High Court of Patna.
The petition was dismissed at the stage of admission.
This appeal is filed by special leave against the order of the High Court.
It is not disputed that the classification of officers whose cases are taken up for consideration into 'outstanding', 'very good', 'good' or 'bad' etc. for purposes of promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre is mainly based upon the remarks in the confidential rolls. 
On December 22, 1976, when the Selection Committee met, the adverse remarks in the confidential roll for 1973-74 had not been communicated and the appellant's representation regarding adverse remarks in the confidential roll for the year 1974-75 and censure against him had not been disposed of although it is alleged that one Shri Yamuna Ram against whom also adverse remarks had been made was included provisionally in the select list. 
When the Selection Committee met on March 11 and 12, 1981 despite State Government's suo motu decision not to retain adverse remarks for the year 1976-77 on records, the same had not been removed from the confidential roll. 
It is also seen that the confidential rolls of the appellant for the year 1979-80 and 1980-81 which contained entries favourable to the appellant were not placed before the Selection Committee.
In addition to all these, the State Government has expunged the adverse remarks by its orders made from time to time. 
Here the adverse entries in question have in fact been expunged by the State Government subsequently. 
Under the present system, entries are first made in the confidential roll of an officer behind his back and then he is given an opportunity to make a representation against any entry that may have been made against him by communicating the adverse entry after considerable delay. 
Any representation made by him would be considered by a higher authority or the State Government or the Central Government, as the case may be, some years later, as it has happened in this case, by which time any evidence that may be there to show that the entries made were baseless may have vanished.
Suspensions, adverse remarks in confidential rolls and frequent transfers from one place to another are ordered or made many a time without justification and without giving a reasonable opportunity to the officer concerned and such actions surely result in the demoralisation of the services. 
Courts can give very little relief in such cases. 
The first respondent is a company engaged in the manufacture of sugar and employing over 1100 workers, 300 of them on a permanent basis and 800 on a seasonal basis. 
The permanent employees are those employed on the clerical side and in the operation and maintenance of machines. 
The other 800 employees are seasonal employees who are so employed because the factory itself does not work through out the year but works during a certain season every year from December when the sugarcane crop is ready for crushing until the crushing is over.
The employer refused to pay bonus to the seasonal employees during the year 1964-65 on the ground that they were not employed through out the year. 
A dispute arose between the management and the Mazdoor Sangh which was referred to the Industrial Court Madhya Pradesh, Indore for arbitration under sec.49 of the Madhya Pradesh Industrial Relations Act. 
This appeal has been filed by the Mazdoor Sangh under a certificate granted by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
To our minds the question is a simple one and is capable of only one answer. 