The Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Calicut has filed this appeal after obtaining the special leave of this Court against the judgment and order dated January 5, 1973 of the High Court of Kerala in Criminal Revision Petition No. 426 of 1972.
Briefly stated, the facts of the case are these: In the early hours of August 9, 1969 the respondent alighted from the Kerala Express at the Trichur Railway Station with a steel trunk in his hand.
PW 1, Inspector of Central Excise Special, Customs, Preventive, Trichur, who was on patrol duty at the Railway Station suspected that the respondent was carrying contraband goods and on coming to know from the Ticket Examiner that the respondent had arrived from Bombay he asked the respondent to hand over the steel trunk which he was carrying.
When PW 1 opened and searched the steel trunk, he found in it 28 gold bars with foreign markings.
The respondent was arrested by PW 1 and when questioned by P.W. 1, the respondent did not produce any authorisation entitling him to keep the 28 gold bars in question which were valued at Rs. 56,030/-.
A mahazar (Exh. P.1) was prepared for having seized the 28 gold bars.
A sum of Rs. 1,380/- which was found in the steel trunk was also seized.
Later on, it is stated, that the 28 gold bars in question were confiscated in a proceeding under section 111(d) of the Costoms Act, 1962 read with section 23-A of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 before the Additional Collector of Customs, Cochin.
The steel trunk also was confiscated under section 119 of the Customs Act, 1962.
A penalty of Rs. 500/- was imposed on the respondent under section 112(b) of the Customs Act, 1962.
The amount of Rs. 1380/- which had been seized from the respondent was, however, ordered to be returned to him.
Thereafter the Assistant Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Kozhikode after obtaining the required sanction under section 137(1) of the Customs Act and section 97(1) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 from the Additional Collector of Customs, Cochin and the Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Cochin respectively filed a complaint before the District Magistrate (Judicial), Tellicherry against the respondent for offences punishable under section 135(b) of the Customs Act read with section 85(ii) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968.
In support of the said prosecution four witnesses were examined by the complainant.
PW 1 gave evidence about the seizure of the 28 gold bars with foreign markings from the respondent at the Trichur Railway Station on August 9, 1969 under the mahazar (Exh. P.1).
He also produced Exh. P.2 which contained the statement made by the respondent before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode in which he had admitted that 28 gold bars with foreign markings had been seized from him under a mahazar and that the said 28 gold bars had not been legally imported to India.
PW 1 stated that he was present before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode when Exh. P.2 was recorded and that the said statement contained the signatures of the respondent and of the Superintendent who had recorded it.
K. Subramonian (P.W. 2) who was working as a Ticket Collector at Trichur Railway Station stated that the 28 gold bars in question were seized on August 9,1969 at the Trichur Railway Station under the mahazar (Exh. P.1) which he had signed.
PW 3 who was a resident of Trichur and a goldsmith by profession stated that the 28 gold bars in question had been examined and weighed by him at the Trichur Railway Station at the request of PW 1.
He further stated that he tested the purity of the said 28 gold bars by rubbing them on the touch-stone and found that they were gold bars of 24 carats quality.
He gave a certificate (Exh. P.3) regarding the purity and the weight of the 28 gold bars.
PW 3 who was a certified goldsmith further stated that he could by experience assess the purity of gold by rubbing it on a touch-stone.
He, however, stated that he had no technical knowledge about gold and he did not know the 'specific gravity' method by which the purity of gold could be determined.
The Assistant Collector of Central Excise (P.W.4) was examined to prove the sanctions given by the competent authorities to file the case.
In his examination under section 342 of Criminal Procedure Code in answer to the following question put by the Court: 'What have you to say about the deposition of P.W.1 that you on 9th August, 1969 at 7 O'clock in the moring alighted from train at Trichur Railway Station with a steel trunk and that P.W.1 on searching the box due to suspicion, found out 28 gold bars having foreign marks ?'
the respondent stated 'It is true that gold was recovered from my box.
It was not mine.
It was handed over to me by the person called Mammu asking me to give it in his house.
I had no knowledge that it was gold.'
The respondent filed a revision petition before the High Court of Kerala against the decision of the learned Sessions Judge:
In the instant case, however, the respondent did not dispute that gold had been recovered from his box under Exh. P.1.
His plea was that it was true that gold was recovered from his box but that it did not belong to him; that it had been handed over by a person called Mammu asking him to give it in his house and that he had no knowledge that it was gold when the packet containing it was handed over to him.
These gold bars were seized by P.W.1 in the reasonable belief that they were smuggled goods.
P.W.1 has stated that the said gold bars had foreign markings on them and Exh. P.1, the mahazar corroborated his statement.
It is in evidence that the said gold bars were found packed in paper and kept in the inside folds of a blanket underneath some clothes in the trunk seized from the respondent.
He had taken care to secrete them.
He had brought them from Bombay which was a customs area.
By the Amending Act several amendments were carried out to the Code on the basis of the recommendations of the Indian Law Commission which had considered extensively the provisions of the Code before it submitted its 54th Report in 1973.
By the time the Law Commission took up for consideration the revision of the Code, there were in force in different parts of India several amendments to the Code which had been effected by the State Legislatures or by the High Courts.
The subject of civil procedure being in Entry 13 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, it is open to a State Legislature to amend the Code insofar as its State is concerned in the same way in which it can make a law which is in the Concurrent List.
As mentioned earlier, before the Amending Act came into force on February 1, 1977 many of the provisions of the Code and the First Schedule had been amended by the State Legislatures or the High Courts as the case may be and such amended provisions had been brought into force in the areas over which they had jurisdiction.
When the Amending Act was enacted making several changes in the Code Parliament also enacted section 97 providing for repeals and savings and the effect of the changes on pending proceedings.
This appeal by special leave is filed against the judgment dated April 9, 1985 in Civil Miscellaneous Writ Petition No. 2754 of 1981 on the file of the High Court of Allahabad.
20 Jamuna Chaubey, respondent No. 3 herein obtained a decree for recovery of money of July 29, 1977 against the appellant Ganpat Giri in Original Suit No. 359 of 1973 on the file of the Munsiff East, Balia.
In execution of the said decree the immovable property belonging to the appellant was brought to sale by court on August 4, 1978 and at that court sale respondent No.3 was declared as the successful bidder.
Before the sale was confirmed, on August 12, 1978 the appellant filed an application for setting aside the sale under Rule 90 of Order 21 of the Code on several grounds.
Later on he made an application stating that the sale was liable to set aside as respondent No. 3 who was the decree holder had not obtained the permission of the executing court under Rule 72(1) of Order 21 of the Code.
Aggrieved by the decision of the executing court respondent No. 3 filed a revision petition before the District Judge, Balia under the provisions of section 115 of the Code (as amended by section 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act 1978 with effect from August 1, 1972).
Against the decision of the District Judge respondent No. 3 filed a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Allahabad.
The question whether Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code required any modification was considered by the Law Commission before it made its recommendation in its 54th Report.
Having observed this, it proceeded to recommend that a new rule 72-A may be added to Order 21 in which there was reference to sub-rules (2) and (3) of Rule 72 in sub-rule (3) of Rule 72-A.
The appellants herein are the plaintiffs in a suit instituted in the Munsiff's Court, Bihar Sharif, seeking the reliefs of declaration of title and delivery of possession with mesne profits in respect of the properties described in the plaint.
The State of Bihar-the 1st respondent herein is the main defendant in the suit.
Prior to the institution of the suit, the plaintiffs had issued a notice to the 1st 311 respondent-State-under section 80 C.P.C. on 18.2.1969 and Exhibit 2 is a copy of the said notice.
However, without waiting for the statutory period of two months, the plaintiffs instituted the suit on 2.4.1969.
In the written statement filed on behalf of the State of Bihar, it was contended, inter alia, that the suit was not maintainable for want of proper notice under Section 80 C.P.C.
Hence this appeal by the plaintiffs.
It was contended before the Privy Council, relying on some early decisions of before the Privy Council, relying on some early decisions of High Court of Bombay, that because one of the reliefs claimed in the suit was the grant of a perpetual injunction and the claim for the said relief would have become infructuous if the plaintiffs were to wait for the statutory period of two months prescribed in Section 80 C.P.C. before they filed the suit, the rigour of the Section should be relaxed by implication of a suitable exception or a qualification in respect of a suit for emergent relief, such as one for injunction.
599 The assessee, a body of individuals, purchased two pieces of land in the year 1966 measuring 14.55 acres at a price of Rs.27,260.
By an instrument of lease-cum-licence dated 10th September, 1970 they granted a mining lease in favour of M/s. Sri Krishna Tiles and Potteries (Madras) Private Limited (hereinafter called the 'Company'), an allied concern of the assessee.
The lease was for a period of 10 years and the lessee had to pay a premium or salami of Rs.5 lakhs in addition to the payment of royalty of Rs. 12 per hundred cubic ft. of clay extracted subject to a minimum of Rs.60,000 per year.
The Income-tax Officer construed the lease deed as transferring a lease-hold interest in the land in favour of the company and came to the conclusion that the transfer was assessable to capital gains tax.
For the purpose of comput- ing the extent of tax the Income-tax Officer assessed the market value of the entire land at Rs.8 lakhs.
Since the lease-hold interest was transferred for a sum of Rs.5 lakhs, he valued the lease-hold interest at 5/8th of the sale price of the entire land.
On that basis the Income-tax Officer computed the cost of acquisition of the lease-hold interest at Rs. 17,040, being 5/8th of Rs.271,260.
Thereafter deduct- ing Rs. 17,040 from the sale consideration of Rs.5 lakhs, he treated the sum of Rs.4,82,960 as long-term capital gains.
The assessee preferred an appeal to the Appellate As- sistant Commissioner.
The assessee preferred an appeal to the Tribunal.
The following two questions were referred to the High Court for determination:
(i) Whether, on the facts and in the cir- cumstances of this case, the instrument of lease dated September 10, 1970 effected the transfer of a capital asset within the meaning of section 45 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and, accordingly, liable to capital gains tax?
(ii)Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal is right in law in holding that the cost of lease hold right is capable of valuation and, as such, capital gains can be computed?
The Income-tax Officer in this case worked out the cost of lease hold interest by adopting the 5/8th ratio, though the Appellate Commissioner gave the benefit to the Assessee of the Full Price of the land paid by him.
This appeal by certificate under Article 133 (1) (a) of the Constitution arises out of an action in tort for damages for trespass and unauthorised interference by the defendants with the A proprietary interest of the plaintiff.
The defendants were the State of Bihar and J.P. Mukherjee, an officer in the service of the Bihar Government.
The plaintiff, Prithwi Chand Lall Choudhary was the karta of a Hindu joint family which owned extensive properties collectively known as the "Raj Nazarganj".
The said properties were spread over the District of Purnea and some other districts in the State of Bihar as also in the State of West Bengal.
The plaintiff was the recorded proprietor of several tauzis situated in the Districts of Purnea and Monghyr and also the proprietor of several tenures and patnis within the said Districts.
The plaintiff was liable to pay about Rs. 2,50,000 by way of taxes, cesses etc. annually.
In the year 1949, the Bihar Legislature passed a law known as the Bihar State Management of Estates and Tenures Act, 1949 (Bihar Act XXI of 1949) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') to provide for the management of estates and tenures in the Province of Bihar.
It received the assent of the Governor-General on September 29, 1949 and was published in the Bihar Gazette Extraordinary of October 17, 1919.
On the coming into force of the Constitution of January 26, 1950, the Act was certified by the President in exercise of his powers conferred by Article 31 (6) of the Constitution.
By a notification dated November 19, 1949 issued under section 3 (1) of the Act the estate of the plaintiff i.e. the 'Raj Nazarganj Estate' was taken under the management of the State Government. J P Mukherjee, defendant No. 2, who was the Additional Collector of Darbhanga, was appointed as the Manager of the said estate.
In the meanwhile the Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga, Sir Kameshwar Singh filed a suit in the Civil Court challenging the validity of the Act as his estate also had been similarly notified under section 3 (1) of the Act.
That suit was withdrawn by the Patna High Court being tried in its Extraordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction.
The judgment of the High Court in that suit is reported as M.D. Sir Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar.(1)
Against that judgment, the State of Bihar preferred an appeal before this Court.
On July 3, 1950 the then Collector by his letter informed the plaintiff that the Government had decided to relinquish charge of the estates A and tenures of the plaintiff and that the plaintiff should cooperate in taking over charge by July 15, 1950.
On July 6, 1950 the Government had already cancelled the notification s issued under section 3 (1) of the Act.
The charge of collection papers was handed by the middle of July, 1950.
The abstracts and synopsis of accounts were given on August 7, 1950.
About Rs. 1, 46,00" had been collected on behalf of the estate during the Government's management.
After the estate was thus handed over to him, the plaintiff filed a suit on September 21, 1951 in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Purnea for damages of Rs. 2,00,000 for wrongful and illegal interference with the plaintiff's estates and tenures and for other consequential reliefs.
The plaint proceeded on the basis that the Act was unconstitutional as declared by the High Court earlier and that taking over of the possession and management of the estate etc. was illegal.
The plaintiff pleaded that the Act having been declared void, the defendants were liable for not only the amount of loss actually suffered by the plaintiff but were also liable to recoup the amount spent by them during their management of the estate which was wrongful.
It was alleged that the action of the defendants suffered from negligence, bad faith and malice.
The plaint claimed that the defendants were liable jointly and severally as tort feasors for all such losses suffered by him. In paragraph 27 of the plaint the plaintiff set out broadly the grounds of his claim thus: (a) that due to gross negligence and wilful default the defendants contravened the provisions of section 3 (1) in notifying and taking possession of part only of plaintiff interests in Estates and Tenures and in omitting to notify other parts of his Estates and Tenures on the first occasion when the notification dated November 19, 1949 was issued the Government was unable to realise all the rents and other dues, (b) that due to wrong notification and omission to notify all parts of his Estates and Tenures and also on account of amalgamated rentals maintained by the plaintiff in respect of his estates and tenures, the plaintiff could not fully realise the balance share of unnotified estates and tenures, (c) that certain rents and decrees had been allowed to become barred by time and (d) that on account of non payment of Agricultural Income Tax and consequent imposition of penalty which was no doubt reduced to Rs.2,000 on appeal the Estate suffered a loss of Rs. 2,000.
He also pleaded that on account of the issue of wrong collection certificates by defendant No. 2 and his staff the plaintiff had suffered some loss which was yet to be ascertained.
In the written statement the defendants traversed all the material allegations in the plaint.
They pleaded inter alia that the notification was issued in November, 1949 on the basis of the requisition of the Collector, P.K.J. Menon and that defendant No. 2 was appointed as Manager by that notification.
The allegations of negligence, bad faith and malice were denied.
The defendants pleaded that on the basis of information available in the records of the Government the notification was issued in November, 1949 and at the request of the plaintiff after verification second notification was issued on March 16, 1950, and that plaintiff requested for the issue of the second notification in order to escape the processes of law which had been taken out against him by his creditors and to shield his entire properties from the creditors.
In fact the Government appointed the very collecting agents who were working under the plaintiff and after the management was handed back he reappointed them as his collecting agents.
The plaintiff had accepted without protest the final accounts which had been prepared at the end of the period of management. Tauzis Nos. 7/8, 30 and 38 about which there was some dispute remained all along with the plaintiff and the collection papers pertaining to them were made over to defendant No. 2 only in the latter part of April, 1950 and if no collection could be made prior thereto in the said area till then the defendants could not be blamed.
The defendants pleaded that they had bona fide carried out their duties.
One fact which requires to be noted here is that the plaint did not have any reference to the effect of section 31 of the Act which is set out above, but it proceeded on the basis that the Act was unconstitutional.
When the appeal came up before a Division bench of the High Court, the defendants contended that the decision of the High Court in which the Act had been declared as unconstitutional required to be reconsidered by the High Court in view of some later decisions of this Court.
The case was then heard by a Full Bench of five learned Judges of the Patna High Court.
The appeal was then referred back to the Division Bench for disposal in accordance with the opinion of the Full Bench.
Aggrieved by the decree passed by the High Court, the State of Bihar applied for a certificate under Article 133 (1) (a) of the Constitution in S.C.A. No. 137/63 on the file of the High Court to file an appeal before this Court.
On the HIGH Court granting the certificate accordingly on December 10,1961, the State of Bihar has filed the above appeal.
The plaintiff also applied for a similar certificate in S.C.A No. 1/64 on the file of the High Court to file an appeal against the decree in so far as it had gone against him.
On going through the record of the case, we find that the following facts are established.
The notification issued on November 19,1949 under section 3 (1) of the Act referred to the name of the proprietor, the name of the estate, tauzi numbers of the estate and the share of the proprietor in the tauzis. Defendant No. 2, J.P. Mukherjee who was then the Additional Collector of Purnea was appointed as the Manager of the estate. On December 14, 1949, the plaintiff was informed by the Collector at Purnea that the management of the estate was to commence from December 30, 1949 and that he should produce before the Manager a list of villages included in the estate and also the Jamabandis, Karchas and Wasil Baukis upto date before December 27,1949 and also to make over a complete and clear list of the papers showing Jamabandis of each village, the arrears collected and the arrears outstanding before the commencement of the management under the Act.
He was requested to cooperate in the matter and was also informed that if he did not do so the responsibility for any loss would be his. On December 27, 1949 the plaintiff wrote a letter to the Collectorate.
In that he stated that the work of handing over papers properly of a big and complicated estate was not an easy task and it would certainly take a considerable number of days to complete it.
He pointed out that the Government had committed an error in taking over the management of only 2A-11A-2C-2K 541 share out of Tauzi No 7/8 under the notification, because the collection papers had been maintained for 5-12. 1 /2 and odd share in respect said of the said tauzi.
He pleaded that unless the whole of 5-12.1/2 share was notified, the work of separation of the notified share from the notified share could not be completed even within a period of six months.
He, therefore, asked for the modification of the notification.
Then we find that the plaintiff had met the Collector many times when the affairs of the estate were discussed.
On March I 1,195 ', the Collector wrote the following letter to the plaintiff: "District Office, Purnea The 11th March.
1950 My dear Raja Saheb, 1. With reference to our discussions on the 7th March.
1950, the following action may be taken with regard to the notified and unnotified portions of your estate as agreed to between us.
2. We will not be taking over the unnotified portion until the notification is made.
As soon as a notification is made we will take over these portions.
Meanwhile in order to see that no limitation occurs with regard to any rent payable to you, you are requested to prepare a copy of arrear list for the unnotified portions.
3. With regard to Tauzi No. 7, sufficient number of Tahsildars and other staff required may be employed after selection on the 14th of March, 1950, at Kishanganj, by the Additional Collector and by your Circle Officer.
A certain number of these, according to the proportion that is notified will be selected by the Additional Collector and paid by Government.
You are requested to employ a certain number according to the proportion of the unnotified interest.
These staff together may be put on the job of preparing the arrear list.
4. If notification is made before the Tamadi Day, we will arrange to issue certificates in respect of arrears due.
If, however, notification for some reason or other is not made, then we will arrange to file joint suits for these arrears before the Tamds Day.
Yours sincerely,  sd/- (Illeg ) 13/3 Raja P.C. Lal Choudhuri, C.B.E. Nazarganj Palace, Purnea City.
A supplementary notification was issued on March 16, 1950 as desired by the plaintiff.
Then we find that there is some further discussion and correspondence between the plaintiff and the Manager.
On April 7,1950, the Manager wrote to the plaintiff that he had been able to persuade the Government to advance Rs. 35,000 to meet the expenses of suits to be field for recovery of rents due to the estate.
The plaintiff replied to that letter on the same date appreciating the step taken by the Government in advancing Rs. 35,000 as loan to the estate.
On April 14,1950, the Manager sent a telegram to the plaintiff stating that since he had not cooperated in sending the previous records of cases in time in respect of Tauzi No. 7/8, it was not possible to file joint suits in respect of both the notified share and the unnotified share and that he was responsible for filing Tamadi suits in respect of the unnotified share in Tauzi No. 718.
The defendant No. 2 in his evidence has stated that he could not make any collection in Tauzis Nos. 7/8 and 30 prior to the second notification because the collection papers were with the plaintiff and they were actually received by him on April 24,.1950.
By the middle of July, 1950, the management of the estate itself was relinquished.
In the present case defendant No. 2 did call upon the plaintiff to submit the documents from which it was possible to find out the ability of persons in respect of the notified share in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 30.
The plaintiff pleaded that he had not maintained such separate set of' accounts and that it would take a long time to prepare it.
He, how- ever, produced the registers by the end of April, 1950 only, after the remaining shares were also notified.
On the other hand he recommended that the unnotified share also should be notified as desired by the plaintiff and such notification was also issued.
By the time steps could be taken to prepare the collections papers the Act had been struck down by the High Court.
Then steps were taken to hand over the estate back to the plaintiff.
With regard to the penalty of Rs. 2,000 imposed for non-payment of the Agricultural Income Tax it is seen that a penalty of Rs. 5,000 was first imposed as the plaintiff was unable to pay the Agricultural Income Tax in time because he could not collect arrears in time.
In fact on the intervention of the Collector it was reduced to Rs.2,000.
Even then it was too remote to the management of the notified estate by defendant No. 2.
It is seen that the estate had to be returned prematurely to the plaintiff Owing to the judgment of the High Court declaring the Act as unconstitutional within a period of about seven months.
But since defendant No. 2 had offered to refund any expenditure incurred in excess of 25% of the gross collections to the plaintiff, defendant No.
I has to pay back Rs. 8,000 to the plaintiff.
The question of law emerges on the facts summarized as follows:
Raja Abhoy Narain Deb was the owner of premises no. I 17-A, Rash Behari Avenue statedly a fashionable quarter of Calcutta, built on an area approximating 1 Bigha 6 cottahs, with three storied building on it consisting of 32 spacious rooms and two out houses.
On the demise of Raja Abhoy Narain Deb, the appellant herein, and the proforma respondents, succeeded as heirs to the same on September 15, 1949.
The appellant and his co-heirs mortgaged their two-third inter- est in the said property as security for a loan of Rs.27,000 obtained from the mortgagor Smt. Prokashini Biswas, the  predecessor-in-interest of the plaintiffs-respondents.
After her death some of the heirs and legal representatives of Smt. Biswas, on March 13, 1961, filed a mortgage suit for the recovery of the mortgage money etc. in the court of the 3rd Subordinate Judge at Alipore, being title Suit No.17 of 1961, seeking enforcement and sale of the mortgaged property.
To this suit the left out heir of Smt. Biswas, original- ly arrayed as a defendant, was transposed as a co-plaintiff.
On July 25, 1962, the trial court passed a preliminary decree in the sum of Rs.27000 for the principal sum and a sum of Rs.24570 for interest on the said principal, totall- ing Rs.51570, together with costs.
The decree stipulated that the mortgagors were allowed to pay the decrectal amount in 15 equal annual instalments, to be deposited by the 30th June of each year, in the afore-mentioned proportions of two- third and one-third, to the credit of the respective mortga- gee-plaintiffs; the first instalment being payable by August 31, 1962.
The mortgagee-plaintiffs were also allowed interest on the sums due from the date of institution-of the suit till the date of realisation of the entire sum.
It was further stipulated that in default of any one of the instal- ments, the mortgagee-plaintiffs were at liberty to apply for making the decree final, and in the event of such applica- tion being made the mortgaged property, or a sufficient part thereof, shall be directed to be sold, and for such purpose all necessary steps were required to be taken by the plain- tiffs-mortgagees.
On December 18, 1962, the present proforma respondent no.8, Kumar Sudhendu Narain Deb, filed F.A. No.902 of 1964 against the aforesaid preliminary decree in the Calcutta High Court praying as well for stay of execution of the decree, which prayer was ultimately declined.
Some deposits, however, were made to feed the preliminary decree but since there was a failure to deposit in the terms there- of, a final decree was passed by the Court of the 3rd Subor- dinate Judge, Alipore on March 6, 1963, even though F.A. No.
902 of 1964, the appeal against the preliminary decree, was pending in the High Court.
The group of the decree-holders representing two-third interest filed an execution petition for realisation of their own share under the decree 240 which was followed by another execution petition of the remaining decree-holder representing one-third interest, seeking realisation of his onethird share of the decreetal amount.
Both the execution petitions contained identical prayers for sale of the mortgaged property.
The execution petitions were consolidated and numbered as Execution Peti- tions 11 and 13 of 1963 respectively.
On August 10, 1963, proclamation of sale was drawn, apparently in the presence of parties.
The decree-holders suggested the value of the mortgaged property as Rs.75,000.
The appellant herein put its value at Rs.3 lacs.
The sale, however, did not take place till March 15, 1968 and a period of over 4 % years passed by in the mean time.
By that time, the value of the property, according to the appellant, had risen to Rs.6 lacs for which on March 4, 1968, before the sale, the appellant made a regular objection under section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Within the intervening period of 4 1/2 years, some more deposits apparently were made by the appel- lant.
The property was all the same sold on March 15, 1968, on the proclamation of sale as was drawn on August 10, 1963, for Rs. 1,00,500 in favour of the auction purchasers re- spondents 6 & 7 herein.
On April 11, 1968, the appellant yet filed an application under Order 21 Rule 90 C.P.C. for selling aside the sale and prayed for stay of its confirma- tion basically on three grounds:

(i) the judgment-debtors had no saleable interest in the mortgaged property;

(ii) legally two execution petitions could not be consoli- dated; and (iii) the provisions of section 35 of the Bengal Money Lenders' Act had been overlooked.
This petition was treated as a part of the original objection under section 47 C.P.C.
On April 11, 1968, the objection under section 47 C.P.C. was dismissed by the executing court against which the appellant preferred an appeal before the Calcutta High Court being F.M.A. No.624 of 1968.
In F.M.A. No.902 of 1964, the appeal against the prelim- inary decree, the parties arrived at a settlement on Decem- ber 13, 1971 before the Calcutta High Court.
In place of the preliminary decree dated July 25, 1962 a new preliminary decree on settlement between the parties, was passed by a division bench of the High Court, whereunder the decrectal amount was principally agreed not to exceed Rs.54000 being the double 241 of the original debt of Rs.27000.
The sums deposited by the appellant, under interim orders of the court from time to time to the credit of the decree-holders, were adjusted and the final amount struck as unpaid was put at Rs.44000 regarding which claim of the morttgagees was conceded by the appellant-mortgager as well as to the manner of its payment, and which sum in fact was deposited by him in Court, for not only simultaneous passing of the decree but recording as well it satisfaction.
Having cleared off in this manner the mortgage debt, the appellant in his appeal F.M.A. 624 of 1968, preferred against the rejection of objection raised the additional legal ground that after the displacement of the original preliminary decree by substitution the final decree did not survive, and so did succumb the auction sale, posing amongst others the question set out in the opening paragraph of the judgment.
The appellant is an employee of the Food Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation').
For purposes of administrative convenience the entire territory of India in which the Corporation carries on its operations is divided into several Regions.
The appellant was working as a Godown Keeper in the Northern Region in the year 1961.
At his request the appellant was transferred to the Eastern Region on March 1, 1961.
In July, 1962, a circular was issued by the Government of India to the effect that an officer who was transferred from one Region to another at his own request should be treated as a fresh entrant in the cadre to which he belonged in the latter Region for the purpose 8 of seniority, that is, his seniority should be reckoned only from the date of joining duty in a particular post in the new Region and as such he would not be entitled to claim the benefit of service in the particular post in the former Region for the purpose of seniority in the same post in the latter Region to which he was transferred.
The circular also stated that it would apply to all cases of transfers of officials made on or after March 1, 1960.
In the seniority list dated November 1, 1969, the name of the appellant appeared against S. No. 261 but in the seniority list dated May 10, 1972, the appellant's name was shown against S. N.266.
In view of the seniority list dated May 10, 1972, four persons who had been considered to be juniors to the appellant earlier were promoted in supersession of the claims of the appellant. The appellant made several representations to the authorities concerned against his supersession in which he questioned the applicability of the above said circular issued in July, 1962 to him.
Since the appellant was not given any reply, he filed a petition Civil Rule No. 6044 (W)/72 under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Calcutta on July 14, 1972.
In that petition, he prayed for a writ in the nature of mandamus directing the respondents therein, namely, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of India, the Regional Director (Food), Eastern Region, Government of India, the Joint Manager (Port Operations) and the Zonal Manager (Eastern Zone), Food Corporation of India to forbear from giving effect to the aforementioned circular in his case or in the alternative to transfer him back to his original place of posting in the Northern Region with his former seniority.
After some correspondence, the Joint Personnel Manager of the Corporation at New Delhi wrote to the zonal Manager (E) of the Corporation at Calcutta that the seniority position of appellant in the Northern Region prior to his transfer to the Eastern Region would be restored to him.
The Zonal Manager, Calcutta conveyed the above information to the appellant by his letter dated September 1, 1976.
Thereafter the appellant was transferred to the Northern Region in November, 1976.
After he joined his post in the Northern Region, the appellant realised that some of his juniors had been promoted to higher positions during the period when he had been working in the Eastern Region.
He, therefore, made a representation on September 4, 1978 to the Managing Director of the Corporation that his cases for promotion to the higher cadre should be considered with effect from the date on which his immediate junior had been promoted.
He made a further representation to the Personnel manager of the Corporation, on August 27, 1979 making a similar request.
On January 20, 1980, he wrote to the Manager (Establishment) of the Corporation about his grievance and on January 30, 1980 to the Zonal Manager (North) of the Corporation.
As these representations yielded no result, the appellant filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Delhi in C.W.P. No. 371/81.
This appeal by special leave is preferred against the aforesaid order of the High Court.
In this Court, the Corporation has filed a counter affidavit the deponent of which is Shri Madhusudan, Deputy Manager (Admn.), of the Corporation.
In the said counter affidavit, it is admitted that before the appellant was re- transferred to the Northern Region, he had been given an assurance that his seniority in the Northern Region prior to his transfer to the Eastern Region would be restored.
It is further stated that the case of the appellant was placed before the Zonal Promotion Committee of the Corporation at its meeting held on December 5, 1977 for considering his case for promotion to the post of Assistant Manager (Depot) against 1970 panel wherein his juniors were empanelled.
As the Confidential Reports relating to the appellant for the years 1966 to 1968 were not available for assessment of his suitability, the Zonal Promotion Committee deferred his case but the appellant was, however, empanelled against 1976 panel on the basis of the available reports.
The Confidential Reports for the years 1966 to 1968 were later on traced and the case of the appellant was again placed before the Zonal Promotion Committee at its meeting held in May, 1979 for considering his claim for inclusion in 10 the 1970 panel.
Thereupon the Zonal Promotion Committee passed a cryptic resolution to the effect that `on the basis of records of his service, his case cannot be reopened'.
It may be mentioned here that the appellant was not informed by the Corporation that the Zonal Promotion Committee had found him unsuitable for being included in the 1970 panel.
The records pertaining to the proceedings of the Zonal Promotion Committee are not also placed before us.
As mentioned earlier when the case of the appellant came up before the Zonal Promotion Committee for the first time on December 5, 1977, it deferred the consideration of the case of the appellant on the ground that the relevant Confidential Reports were not available.
This is an appeal by special leave against the order dated October 5,1982 in C.W.J.C. No.1420 of 1982 on the file of the High Court of Patna dismissing the petition filed by the appellant under Article 226 of the Constitution.
The facts of the case are these:
The appellant was directly recruited and appointed as a Deputy Superintendent of Police in the Police Department of the State of Bihar in the year 1964.
In 1973 he was eligible to be considered for appointment as a member of the Indian Police Service under the provisions of the Indian Police Service 301 (Recruitment) Rules, 1954 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Rules') read with the Indian Police Service (Appointment by Promotion) Regulations, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Regulations') framed under sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 of the Rules.
His case was placed before the Committee constituted under Regulation 4 of the Regulations for the purpose of preparation of the list of suitable officers for promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre of the State of Bihar in 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976.
In the years 1973, 1974 and 1975, he could not be included in the select list as he was junior to those who were included in the select list.
In the year 1976 his name was not included in the select list as there was an adverse entry in his confidential roll of 1973-74.
The reasons given by the Committee for superseding the appellant based on the confidential roll were these: "Delayed disposal of pending papers and supervision notes. Inadequate control over office, judgment, initiative, sense of responsibility and management reported tobe just fair. Censured by State Govt. order dt. 20th Oct., 1975."
The Selection Committee took the decision to supersede the appellant at its meeting held on December 22, 1976 in view of the above entry in the confidential roll of the appellant.
It is not disputed that the said adverse entry was communicated to the appellant in the year 1977 after the above meeting was over.
It appears that there were also adverse entries in the annual confidential roll of the appellant for the year 1974-75. They were communicated to the appellant in the year 1976.
The appellant made representations in respect of both the adverse entries in time.
His main grievance was that they had been made by his official superior who was biased against him.
The adverse entry made in the confidential roll for the year 1973-74 was expunged by the State Government on December 3, 1980 and the adverse entries in the confidential roll for the year 1974- 75 were expunged by two orders dated February 21, 1978 and October 7, 1980.
There was no meeting of the Selection Committee from 1977 to 1980.
It, however, met on March 11/12, 1981.
On this occasion the appellant represented to the Committee that the adverse entries in his confidential rolls had been removed by the State Government by various orders and requested them to consider his case for promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre.
On this occasion the Committee did not look into the confidential rolls of the appellant for the years 1979-80 and 1980-81 which contained entries very favourable to the appellant for no fault of the appellant.
The Committee, however, classified him as 'good' but did not include him in the select list while some of his juniors were included.
The appellant represented to the Committee and the State Government against the decision taken by the Committee.
The Committee again met on October 14, 1981.
When nothing came out of the representations made by him, the appellant filed a writ petition questioning the validity of the decisions of the Selection Committee before the High Court of Patna.
The petition was dismissed at the stage of admission.
This appeal is filed by special leave against the order of the High Court.
It is not disputed that the classification of officers whose cases are taken up for consideration into 'outstanding', 'very good', 'good' or 'bad' etc. for purposes of promotion to the Indian Police Service Cadre is mainly based upon the remarks in the confidential rolls.
On December 22, 1976, when the Selection Committee met, the adverse remarks in the confidential roll for 1973-74 had not been communicated and the appellant's representation regarding adverse remarks in the confidential roll for the year 1974-75 and censure against him had not been disposed of although it is alleged that one Shri Yamuna Ram against whom also adverse remarks had been made was included provisionally in the select list.
When the Selection Committee met on March 11 and 12, 1981 despite State Government's suo motu decision not to retain adverse remarks for the year 1976-77 on records, the same had not been removed from the confidential roll.
It is also seen that the confidential rolls of the appellant for the year 1979-80 and 1980-81 which contained entries favourable to the appellant were not placed before the Selection Committee.
In addition to all these, the State Government has expunged the adverse remarks by its orders made from time to time.
Here the adverse entries in question have in fact been expunged by the State Government subsequently.
Under the present system, entries are first made in the confidential roll of an officer behind his back and then he is given an opportunity to make a representation against any entry that may have been made against him by communicating the adverse entry after considerable delay.
Any representation made by him would be considered by a higher authority or the State Government or the Central Government, as the case may be, some years later, as it has happened in this case, by which time any evidence that may be there to show that the entries made were baseless may have vanished.
Suspensions, adverse remarks in confidential rolls and frequent transfers from one place to another are ordered or made many a time without justification and without giving a reasonable opportunity to the officer concerned and such actions surely result in the demoralisation of the services.
Courts can give very little relief in such cases.
The first respondent is a company engaged in the manufacture of sugar and employing over 1100 workers, 300 of them on a permanent basis and 800 on a seasonal basis.
The permanent employees are those employed on the clerical side and in the operation and maintenance of machines.
The other 800 employees are seasonal employees who are so employed because the factory itself does not work through out the year but works during a certain season every year from December when the sugarcane crop is ready for crushing until the crushing is over.
The employer refused to pay bonus to the seasonal employees during the year 1964-65 on the ground that they were not employed through out the year.
A dispute arose between the management and the Mazdoor Sangh which was referred to the Industrial Court Madhya Pradesh, Indore for arbitration under sec.49 of the Madhya Pradesh Industrial Relations Act.
In the petition for compensation filed before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (for short, "the Tribunal"), it was alleged that the accident was caused due to parking of the offending Gas Tanker in the middle of the road without any indicator or parking lights. The claimant examined the eye- witness Sohan Lal (PW-7) who, in his affidavit, gave an account of the cause of accident in the following words:
"... That on 15.12.2011 at about 10.30 P.M. I along with P.H.G. Ajit Singh was present near Sanjha Chulha Dhaba, on the National Highway, (which leads to Jammu) in the area of Village Ajijpur, P.S. Sujanpur. At that time all the traffic was diverted on the Eastern side of the road, as the Western side of road was closed due to construction work. In meantime, a Maruti Car No.HR- 02-K/0448 came from Jammu side (Madhopur side) and struck against the back of the Gas Tanker as the driver of car could not spot the parked tanker due to flash-lights of the oncoming traffic from front side. Then we rushed towards the spot of accident, and noticed that the said tanker was standing parked in middle of the road, without any indicators or parking lights. Due to the accident the car was damaged extensively. The driver of the Car and a lady sitting by his side, died at the spot. Two children, who were on the rear seat of car were also injured."
(emphasis supplied)
4. The said witness was cross-examined by the respondents. The relevant portion of his cross-examination reads thus:
"...We were standing on Dhaba on duty with our motorcycle. The truck was standing just opposite the dhaba on the other side of the road. I was able to see the truck at that time. There was no fog at that time. There was lights on the dhaba and the truck was visible to me due to light of dhaba. I was standing at the distance about 70 ft. from the truck because there was road between me and the truck. I have heard the voice/sound caused by the accident only then I noticed at the car struck against the truck. I have not seen the car before the accident, and only seen after the accident. I reached the spot after hearing the sound of accident. I cannot tell the speed of the car because I have not seen the car. The road is about 88 ft. wide i.e. 44 ft. on each side with a divider in between. The left portion of the truck was just on the edge of the road towards the kucha portion."
5. The respondents had opposed the claim petition and denied their liability but did not lead any evidence on the relevant issue to dispel the relevant fact. The Tribunal after analysing the evidence, including the Site Map (Ext.P-45) produced on record along with charge-sheet filed against the driver of the Gas Tanker and the arguments of the respondents, answered issue No.1 against the respondents in the following words:
"21. Our own Hon'ble High Court in a case captioned Lekhu Singh and other Vs. Udey Singh and others, (2007 4 PLR 507 held that while considering a claim petition, the Tribunal is required to hold an enquiry and act not as criminal court so as to find whether the claimants have established the occurrence beyond shadow of any reasonable doubt. In the enquiry, if there is prima facie evidence of the occurrence there is no reason to disbelieve such evidence. The statements coupled with the facts of registration of FIR and trial of the accused in a criminal court are sufficient to arrive at a conclusion that the accident has taken place. Likewise, in Kusum Lata Vs. Satbir, 2011 (2) RCR (c) 379 (SC) Hon'ble Apex Court has held that in a case relating to motor accident claims, the claimants are not required to rove the case as it is required to be done in a criminal trial. The Court must keep this distinction in mind. Strict proof of an accident caused by a particular bus in a particular manner may not be possible to be done by the claimants. The claimants were merely to establish their case on the touchstone of preponderance of probability. The standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt could not have been applied.
22. After considering the submissions made by both the parties, I find that PW7 Sohan Lal eye-witness to the occurrence has specifically stated in his affidavit Ex. PW7/A tendered in his evidence that on 15.12.2011 at about 20.30 p.m. he alongwith PHG Ajit Singh was present near Sanjha Chulha Dhaba on the National High Way leads to Jummu. All the traffic of road was diverted on the eastern side of the road on account of closure of road on western side due to construction work. In the meantime a Maruti car bearing No.HR-02-K-0448 came from Jammu side and struck against the back of Gas Tanker as the driver of the car could not spot the parked tanker due to the flash lights of the oncoming traffic from front side. Then they rushed towards the spot of accident and noticed that the said tanker was standing parked in the middle of the road without any indicators or parking lights.
23. The statement of this witness clearly establishes that this was the sole negligence on the part of the driver of the gas tanker especially when the accident was caused on 15.12.2011 that too at about 10.30 p.m. which is generally time of pitch darkness. In this way, the driver of the car cannot be held in any way negligent in this accident. Moreover, as per Rules 15 of the Road Regulations, 1989 no vehicle is to be parked on busy road.
The assessee had claimed that large tracts of, forest land, covered with wild and natural forest growths, situated in the erstwhile Malabar District, were 'agricultural' lands not liable to estate duty under the Estate Duty Act of 1953 (hereinafter referred to as the Act'). According to the Revenue, duty had become leviable on the death of the former owners, Smt. Jayalakshmi Devi, who died on 6-3-1954, and Shri Madhava Rajah of Kollengode, who died on 9th May, 1955, each owning 1/13th share in the Tarwad properties on the dates of their deaths.
3. No question as to the effect of any amendment of the law upon liability of agricultural laud to Estate duty was referred by the Tribunal to the High Court. Nevertheless, it seems to have been considered by reason of the general nature of the-question referred involving a determination of the correctness of the inclusion of the value of "forest land in the total value of the estate". We may observe here that the question framed seems to rest on the assumption that the land under consideration was "forest land". However, the general nature of the question framed and the questions argued and decided by the Appellate Tribunal as well as the High Court indicated that the real contest was about the very nature of the land involved in order to determine whether it was liable to estate duty.
The brief facts in order to decide the present controversy are as follows:
The Assessee is a partnership firm consisting of three partners, namely, Mr. Naresh Goyal, Mr. Surinder Goyal and M/s Jet Enterprises Private Limited having a profit sharing ratio of 35%, 15% and 50% respectively. The Assessee firm had taken a loan of Rs. 28,52,41,516/- from M/s Jetair Private Limited, New Delhi. In this Company, the Assessee subscribed to the equity capital of the aforesaid Company in the name of two of its partners, namely, Mr. Naresh Goyal and Mr. Surinder Goyal totaling 48.19 per cent of the total shareholding. Thus Mr. Naresh Goyal and Mr. Surinder Goyal are shareholders on the Company's register as members of the Company. They hold the aforesaid shares for and on behalf of the firm, which happens to be the beneficial shareholder.
4. The question that arises in these appeals is as to whether Section 2(22)(e) of the Act gets attracted inasmuch as a loan has been made to a shareholder, who after the amendment, is a person who is the beneficial owner of shares holding not less than 10% of the voting power in the Company, and whether the loan is made to any concern in which such shareholder is a partner and in which he has a substantial interest, which is defined as being an interest of 20% or more of the share of the profits of the firm.
At this stage, it may be mentioned that during the pendency of the suit, the defendants transferred the land in dispute in 1995 to defendant Nos.5, 6 and 7 and that is why the purchasers were impleaded as defendants in the suit.
10. The parties filed their written statements to the plaint and the stand taken by the defendants was that the sale consideration of Rs.1,32,000/- per acre was ridiculously low and illusory.
long with the plaint, an application was filed by Rakesh Kumar under Order XXXIX of the Code of Civil Procedure for an injunction against alienation of the land in dispute, in which notice was issued to the defendants therein. Rakesh Kumar was granted an interim injunction subject to his depositing the balance sale consideration for restraining the defendants from alienating the land in dispute. It has come on record that Rakesh Kumar did not deposit the balance sale consideration.
Faced with this situation, Rakesh Kumar filed a suit before the High Court being Suit No. 1193 of 1987. As mentioned above, the suit was transferred to the District Courts and renumbered as Suit No.642 of 2001. The prayer in the suit was for specific performance for the agreement to sell dated 29th May, 1986 and for possession of the land in dispute.
According to Rakesh Kumar, the defendants were obliged to obtain a certain 'no objection certificate' from the appropriate authority for sale of the disputed land and also permissions and clearances but they failed to take any interest in this regard. Accordingly, Rakesh Kumar issued a lawyer's notice dated 16th May, 1987 to the defendants to carry out their obligations but they failed to do so.
In the plaint filed by the respondent (Rakesh Kumar), it was averred that he had entered into an agreement to sell on 29th May, 1986 in respect of land in Rectangle No.81, Killa Nos.21/1 (1-2), 22/1 (4-5), 19/2 (4-0), 19/1 (0-12), 20/2 (1-2) in all measuring 11 bighas and 1 biswa situated in Village Mehrauli, Tehsil Mehrauli, New Delhi. A part of the land was under the absolute ownership/bhumidari of Kalawati while the rest of the land was in the absolute ownership/bhumidari of defendant Nos.2 to 4 (Bishan Prakash, Om Prakash and Ved Prakash).
6. As per the agreement to sell, the sale price of the land in dispute was Rs.1,32,000/- per acre. An amount of Rs.30,000/- was paid by Rakesh Kumar to the defendants as advance payment and part payment towards the sale price for which a receipt was given to him.
The subject matter of the appeal is an agreement to sell dated 29th May, 1986. A suit was filed by the plaintiff (Rakesh Kumar) in the Delhi High Court being Suit No.1193 of 1987 for specific performance of the agreement to sell. It appears that due to a change in pecuniary jurisdiction, the suit was transferred to the District Courts and was re-numbered as Suit No.642 of 2001. A disturbing feature of the appeal is that even about 31 years later, the parties are not quite sure about the fate of the agreement to sell entered into in 1986. The period is extremely long and such a lapse of time for the enforcement (or otherwise) of a contract is good reason to re-think the procedures.
The respondents herein are engaged in the business of construction and, in the process, providing the services known as 'Commercial or Industrial Construction Service'. This service is exigible to service tax as per the provisions of Section 65(105) (zzq) of the Finance Act, 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act'). The assessees accept that they are covered thereby and, therefore, are paying service tax as well. The dispute, however, is with regard to the valuation of taxable service provided by them. Under Section 67 of the Act deals with such a valuation.
3. It is a matter of common knowledge that for undertaking construction projects, the assessees not only render services, lot of materials/goods are also used in the construction of building or civil structure etc. For valuation of taxable services, the material/goods element has to be excluded. In order to make the things easier for the assessees as well as the Assessing Officers (AOs), the Government issued the Notification No. 15/2004-ST dated September 10, 2004 as per which service tax is to be calculated on the value which is equivalent to 33% of the gross amount charged from any person by such commercial concern for providing the taxable service. This notification was amended vide another Notification No. 4/2005-ST dated March 01, 2005 whereby an explanation was added to the original notification. This explanation mentions that the 'gross amount charged' shall include the value of goods and material supplied and provided or used by the provider of construction services for providing such service. It is made optional for the assessees to take advantage of the aforesaid notification and get the value calculated as per the aforesaid formula provided therein. The assessees have availed the benefit and paid the service tax @33% of the gross amount which they have charged from the persons for whom construction was carried out, i.e., the service recipients. It so happened that in all these cases where the construction projects were undertaken by the assessees, some of the goods/materials (particularly, steel and cement) were supplied or provided by the service recipients. As these materials were to be utilised in the projects meant for service recipients themselves, obviously, no costs thereof was charged from the assessees. The Department wants that value of such goods/materials even when supplied or provided free should be included, while calculating the "gross value" and 33% thereof be treated as value for the purpose of levying service tax.
 of the State Government is that the classification fully satisfies the criterion "social and educational backwardness". In proof of the assertion it is pointed out that the present selection shows that candidates from areas not included in this classified category have taken 66 seats out of 75 on the basis of open merit. It is conceded that a large number of villages have been included in the classification, but it is pointed out that the greater bulk of the population resides in the two cities of Srinagar and Jammu alone and would be equivalent to the population of hundreds of villages taken together. The classification is supported by the consideration that in the nature of things the inhabitants of the rural areas are socially and educationally backward. It is urged that merely because some of the villages are administered by Notified Area Committees does not remove the stigma of backwardness.
12. It is admitted that two reports, popularly described as the Anand Committee report and the Sikri Commission report, are under consideration by the Government but, it is said, as a comprehensive appreciation of the situation disclosed by the two reports of all the aspects of social and educational backwardness in the State has not been made yet, the Government has proceeded "in its own wisdom" to identify the areas suffering from regional imbalance.
13. We are of opinion that the classification attempted by the State Government by its order dated 24th September, 1980 suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and must be declared invalid. There is no intelligible data before us for sustaining the classification. No doubt the State Government has acted in its own wisdom, but the material to which that wisdom was applied has not been disclosed at all. The fact by itself that some hundreds of villages have been brought within the classification is of no assistance whatever.
 From 14th to 17th July, 1980, as many as 660 candidates were interviewed by a Committee at Srinagar by way of viva voce examination. On 21st July, 1980 the State Government issued a directive that a total list of 125 candidates be prepared against all the seats of the two Government Medical Colleges, at Srinagar and at Jammu. A Selection List was finalised taking into account the reservations made for various categories and classes by the different Government orders, and was published on 29th September, 1980, and the names of 75 candidates were announced for admission to the M.B.B.S. course to the Government Medical College, Srinagar.
9. The principal contention of Mr. Soli Sorabjee appearing for the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 5600 of 1980, is that notwith standing this brave attempt to meet the Constitutional requirement indicated in Nishi Maghu1980 Indlaw SC 303 (supra) the State Government has failed in its purpose. It is urged that there was no material before the State Government affording a pertinent basis for classifying these villages.
10. It is pointed out that almost whole tehsils of different districts have been identified as socially and educationally backward, 'bad pockets' and areas belonging to the line of actual control have been included and in the result with more than 95 per cent of the villages classified as socially and educationally backward, the inference must be that almost all of Kashmir Division calls for a reservation quota. It is asserted that a portion of Srinagar city, which includes Sangin Darwaza and Bhagwanpure, has also been identified as socially and educationally backward. To that class have also been added towns where Notified Area Committees exist. The submission is that the classification is wholly arbitrary and without any foundation to sustain it. The mere circumstance, it is urged, that the classification is defined on the basis of villages without anything more demonstrates its unConstitutional character.
out the same time, a Government order was issued fixing 17% of the seats in the M.B.B.S course of the medical colleges of the State as the admission quota for the purpose of "rectification of imbalances."
The Principal, Government Medical College, Srinagar invited applications by 3rd April, 1980 for admission to the M.B.B.S. course for the session 1980-81, and the notice specified the qualifying examinations of the Board of Secondary Education, Kashmir, or any other equivalent Board or University which constituted the basis of eligibility.
3. The manner and procedure governing the eligibility for admission had been set forth in a Government order of 3rd April, 1978, which laid down that a Selection Committee constituted by the Government would determine the inter se merit of eligible candidates on the basis of an interview for judging their (a) physical fitness, (b) personality, (c) aptitude, (d) general knowledge and (e) general intelligence. This Government order was modified by a subsequent Government order dated 23rd June, 1980 and in the result eligible candidates were now required to appear not only in the viva voce examination but also in an objective test. These two tests along with merit in the qualifying examination of the Board or University constituted the three elements which together combined to form a basis for Selection. The qualifying examination carried 35 marks, the objective test was allotted 35 marks and the viva voce examination was assigned 30 marks.
4. Besides the examination base constituted by the aforesaid three criteria, the selection was also determined by a distribution of the seats into three distinct divisions. Of the total number of seats 50% were earmarked for being filled on the basis of open merit, 25% were reserved for candidates from Scheduled Castes and other reserved categories, one of which was broadly described as "socially and educationally backward classes" and included candidates from (a) areas adjoining actual line of control, and (b) area known as bad pockets including Ladhak. After selection had been made as above the remaining 25% of the seats were to be filled "on the basis of inter se merit to ensure rectification of imbalance in the admission for the State, if any, so as to give equitable and uniform treatment to those parts". It was also recited that in case there was no "visible imbalance", the seats earmarked under that head were to be distributed among further "open merit" candidates. On 27th June, 1974, the percentage of seats reserved for the different categories was refixed, so that 60% of the seats were now earmarked for admission on the basis of "open merit", 20% for distribution among candidates from the Scheduled Castes and other reserved categories including socially and educationally backward classes, and the remaining 20% of the seats were earmarked for "ensuring rectification of imbalances". Still another order dated 21st April, 1976 reduced the reservation for removing regional imbalances from 20% to 18%.
he facts giving rise to the appeal are that the petitioner company was incorporated on July 29,1924, as an investment company, the objects of which are set out in el. III of the memorandum of association and more particularly in sub cls. 1, 2, 15 and 16 of that clause. The assessment years under review. are 1943-44 to 1948-49, excepting the year 1947-48. According to its petition made in the High Court of Bombay, the petitioner company dealt with its assets as follows: "The Petitioner Company purchased during the period 1st July 1925 to 30th June 1928 shares of the value of Rs. 1,86,47,789/- major portion of which was comprised of shares in the Sassoon Group of Mills. During the year ended 30th June 1929 the Petitioner Company promoted two companies known as Loyal Mills Ltd. and Hamilton Studios Ltd. and took over all their shares of the value of Rs. 10 1/2 lacs.
2. In the year 1930, the Petitioner Company purchased shares of Rs. 1,33,930. During the period of 9 years from 1st July 1930 to 30th July 1939 no purchases were made with the exception of a few shares of Loyal Mills Ltd., taken over from the staff of E. D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd., who retired from service. In the year ended 30th June 1940 reconstruction scheme of the Appollo Mills Ltd., took place under which debentures held by the Petitioner Company in the Appollo Mills Ltd., were redeemed and the proceeds were reinvested in the new issue of shares made by the Appollo Mills Ltd. Out of the purchases of the value of Rs. 2,794 made by the Petitioner Company during the year ended 30th June 1941 Rs. 2,000/- was the value of shares of the Loyal Mills Ltd., taken over from the retiring staff. In the year ended 30th June 1943 the Petitioner Company took over from the David Mills Co. Ltd., shares of The Associated Building Co., of the value of Rs. 56,700/-. After this there were no purchases at all to this date excepting purchases of the value of Rs. 34,954 during the year ended 30th June, 1946. "
writ petitions have been filed by the doctors who after passing the M.B.B.S. examination, appeared for the Post-Graduate Medical Entrance Examination (PGMEE) held by the Lucknow University in the year 1992, but remained unsuccessful as they secured less than 50% marks which were necessary for the students of general category and 40% marks for SC/ST according to the rules for admission applicable for Post-Graduate course
As common questions of facts and law arise for decision, these appeals are disposed of by a common judgment. Dr. Anupam Gupta, Dr. (Km.) Renu Agarwal and Dr. Sanjay Agarwal passed their M.B.B.S. course and also completed internship. The first two appeared for the Post Graduate Medical Entrance Examination (P.G.M.E.E.) held by Lucknow University on September 30, 1990 for admission into postgraduate degree and diploma courses in specialities. Dr. Sanjay Agarwal had appeared for the year 1991. Dr. Anupam Gupta secured in his qualifying M.B.B.S. examination 61.8% and 41.6% in Entrance examination. Dr. (Km.) Renu Agarwal secured 65% in the M.B.B.S. qualifying examination and 49.1% in Entrance examination. Dr. Sanjay Agarwal secured 53.60 in qualifying M.B.B.S. examination and 46.6% in Entrance examination. They were denied admission in postgraduate courses due to their failure to secure minimum 50% qualifying marks in the Entrance examination. Assailing the denial thereof, offending Articles 14, 15(1) and 29(2) of the  Constitution they filed the writ petitions. In the case of first two Doctors, by a common judgment dated August 24, 1991, the High Court allowed the writ petitions and directed to give them admission in Allahabad and Agra Medical College in the Gynaecology and Obstristics degree course to which they had given their options. The High Court upheld the validity of the prescription of 50% of the minimum marks as eligibility criteria. But on the finding that there are two vacant seats available for admission, directed those seats be given them. Following this ratio Dr. Sanjay Agarwal was directed to be admitted in the Post Graduate Degree Course in Anesthesia in Gorakhpur Medical College in his writ petition. The State filed the appeals against these judgments. [Section 28(5) of the U.P. Universities Act 10 of 1973, as amended by the Act 15 of 1980, the later came into force from January 1, 1979,] for short 'the Act' provides that:
"Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act, admission to medical and engineering colleges and to course of instruction for degrees in education of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of medicine (including the number of students to be admitted), shall be regulated by such orders (which if necessary may be with retrospective effect, but not effective prior to January 1, 1979) as the State Government may, by notification, make in that behalf: Provided that no order regulating admissions under this sub-section shall be inconsistent with the rights of miniorities in the matter of establishing and administering educational institutions of their choice."
2.  The non-obstenti clause diffuses the effect of any inconsistent law in the Act and empowers the State Govt., if necessary with retrospective effect, to regulate by a notification, the admission to medical and engineering colleges as well as to courses of instructions and the number of students therein.
3.  In exercise of the power under Sub-S. 5 of S. 28, G.O. 4215 dated August 22, 1989 was issued by the State Govt. to enforce junior residency/senior residency and dental residency scheme in all Govt. Allopathic Medical Colleges and affiliated degree colleges and hospitals prescribing the eligibility for selection/examination and fixation of seats of various degrees and diploma courses therein. Clause 3 prescibes the procedure for selection of the candidates for the aforesaid scheme. Clause 3 (e) is relevant which reads thus:
"The residents shall be selected departmentwise in the colleges under the said scheme and their registration shall take place on the basis of merit-cum-option. The merit shall be ascertained on the basis of 50% of marks obtained in the competitive examination and 50% of the total marks obtained in M.B.B.S examination (50:50)."
4.  The competitive examination shall start with new batch for 75% seats in the institutions and the eligibility criteria was prescribed in paragraph 4. The details whereof are not relevant for the purpose of this case. This was further amended by a notification No. 8390 dated October 9, 1990. It was stated therein that rulings of this court; rules of Indian Medical Council and the recommendation of the Committee constituted to reform P.G. Education/Training in All Govt. Allopathic Medical Colleges and Dental College of the State necessitated to prescribe the procedure for fixation of the seats in various degrees and diploma course eligibility and the marks. The scheme came into effect from August 1, 1987. In Paragraph 8 (f) it has been stated that the residents shall be selected departmentwise in the colleges under such scheme and the registration shall take place on the basis of merit-cum-option. The merit shall be ascertained on the basis of the marks obtained in the "competitive examination".
5. The minimum qualifications for admission were prescribed in clause (g), the details of which are not material for the purpose of this case. In the Press Note issued inviting applications for the entrance examination of the year 1990, no mention was made that the candidate shall secure the minimum 50% of the marks in the entrance examination to be held on May 27, 1990. But, however, in the subsequent press note issued obviously before holding of the examination on September 30, 1990, it was stated that as per G.O. No. 1259(it is only a letter) dated February 20, 1990, the eligibility criteria for admission to the above postgraduate courses shall be for general candidates a minimum of 50% marks and for the candidates of the reserved category (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) a minimum of 40% marks secured at P.G.M.E.E. Candidates belonging to SC/ST shall also be given weightage of 1.65% of the maximum marks of the competitive entrance examination, (i.e. 50 marks) for ranking them in the merit list for admission to the postgraduate courses. Therein it was further stated that:
"1. For admission to postgraduate courses, the competitive examination shall be organised on the pattern of All India Institute of Medical Science or University College of Medical Science.
2. This examination shall have 100% objective type questions. The eligibility criteria for admission to postgraduate courses shall be 50% minimum qualifying marks for candidates of general category and 40% minimum qualifying marks for can- didates of reserved categories (SC/ST).
3. Candidates belonging to scheduled caste and scheduled tribe shall be given an additional weightage of 1.65% of the total marks.
4. This examination shall be held in the month of April 1990 on one and the same day for all the medical colleges but with different sets of question papers. For institutional seats of colleges, candidates of the same college shall be eligible.
5. Candidates who shall be completing their internship by December 1990 shall be eligible to appear in this examination."
6. It is, thus, clear that the Govt. by statutory notifications dated August 20, 1989 and October 9, 1990 prescribed entrance examination and prescription of 50% marks therein as a criteria for admission into P.G. degree and diploma courses in medicine and in the later notification 50% as a condition precedent. In the letter dated Feb. 20, 1990 prescribed as minimum 50% to the general candidates and 40% to SCs/STs together with weightage of 1.65% of the maximum marks i.e. 50 in total.
On October 27, 1952, the Income-tax Officer passed an order under s. 26-A granting registration of the partnership constituted under the deed dated April 1, 1950, but the Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, exercising revisional jurisdiction under s. 33-B of the Act, set aside the order and directed that the partnership be assessed to tax as an unregistered firm. In the view of the Commissioner the partnership deed did not represent the true state of affairs and that "the Actual position as distinguished from the recitals in the partnership deed was that all the partners of the Match Factories were directly partners of the assesses" and as the names of all the partners were not set out in the deed and the other requirements relating to registration had not been complied with, registration be refused. The order was confirmed in appeal to the Income- tax Appellate Tribunal.
24.  At the direction of the High Court of Madras Linder s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, the Tribunal referred the following question:
"Whether on the facts and the circumstances of the case the refusal of registration of the assessee firm under s. 26-A of the Income-tax Act was correct in law?"
25.  The High Court answered this question in the negative. Against that order, with special leave, the Commissioner of Income-tax has appealed to this Court.
26.  The Tribunal held that the covenants in the deed of partnership and especially in paragraphs 3 and 16 viewed in the light of the entry in the books of account of Gnanam Match Works debiting the capital contributed in the name of Palaniswamy Nadar to the assessee, and not in the name of its partner, and division of the profits received from the assessee by Palaniswamy Nadar, Sankarlinga Nadar, Arumaghaswamy Nadar and Arunachalam Nadar with others owners of their respective business, indicated that the named partners were acting as representatives of those owners. The High Court also held that cl. 16 of the partnership agreement did not impose any liability upon the manufacturing concerns to pay any commission as stipulated therein on the "production of the match factories". The High Court observed:
"Cl. 16 does not lay any liability upon the manufacturing concerns and cannot oate as an enforceable contract against those other match companies. If one of those match companies should decline to put through its sales business through the assessee-firm, the only result would haps be that the partnership would not advance moneys or finance to that manufacturing concern; it might also be that the particular partner interested in the manufacturing concern might stand to lose the benefit of this partnership. But that is not the same thing as to say that those manufacturing concerns themselves had become partners of the assessee partnership."
27.  The High Court also observed that the assessee was not concerned with the disposal of the profits received by its partners. Finally the High Court observed that "an individual member of the partnership is not prevented from engaging in business as member of another partnership. The law does not prohibit such a course and even the Income-tax law relating to registration of partnerships only refuses registration when the formation of such partnerships is intended to evade the incidence of income-tax and nothing more. We are not satisfied that the Tribunal correctly appreciated the facts of the present case in coming to the conclusion that the match works were the real parties to this instrument of partnership".
28.  The Solicitor-General appearing for the Commissioner contended that the High Court had in exercising its advisory jurisdiction, in substance assumed appellate powers and had ought to reappraise the evidence on which the conclusion of the Tribunal was founded. Counsel contended that the Tribunal had recorded a clear finding on the facts that the "match works were the real" partners, and the High Court was bound on the question framed to record its opinion on the questions of law referred on the basis of that finding.
29.  Section 26-A of the Indian Income-tax Act enacts the procedure for registration of firms. By that section on be- half of any firm application may be submitted to the Income- tax Officer for registration, if the firm is constituted under an instrument of partnership, specifying the individual shares of the partners. The application has to be made by such son or sons and at such times and shall contain such particulars and shall be in such form as may be prescribed. It is open to a firm to carry on business without registration under the Indian Registration Act. By obtaining an order of registration, the partners of the firm are enabled to -et the benefit of lower rates of tax than those applicable to the whole income of the firm, when charged as a unit of assessment. In the relevant year of assessment if the firm was unregistered the tax payable by it had to be determined as in the case of any other distinct entity and tax had to be levied on the firm itself. If, however, the firm was registered, the firm did not pay the tax and therefore the tax payable by the firm was not determined, but the share of profit received from the firm was added to the income of each partner, and on the total so determined tax was levied against the partners individually. It is manifest that if the firm desired to secure this privilege it had to conform strictly to the requirements prescribed by law. Under the rules framed under s. 59 of the Indian Income-tax Act.
 1922, rules 2 to 6B deal with registration and renewal of registration of firms. The application for registration has to be signed by all the partners (not being minors) personally, and the application has to be in the form prescribed by rule 3. The form prescribed requires the partners of the firm to disclose the names of each partner, his address, date of admittance to Partnership, and other relevant particulars including each Dartrer's share in the profits and loss, "particulars of the firm as constituted at the date" of the application, and particulars of the apportionment of the income, profits of gains or loss of the business, profession or vocation in the previous year between the partners who in that previous year were entitled to share in such income, profits or gains or loss, where the application is made after the end of the relevant previous year. If the Income-tax Officer is satisfied that there is a firm in existence constituted as shown in the instrument of partnership and the application has been properly made, he has to enter in writing at the foot of the instrument or certified copy, as the case may be, a certificate of registration of the partnership under s. 26-A of the Act. This certificate of registration ensures only for the year mentioned therein, but the firm is entitled to obtain renewal of the registration.
The facts that have given rise to the appeal may briefly be stated. There are 5 firms in Sivakasi manufacturing matches under the name and style of Shenbagam Match Works, Brilliant Match Works, Manoranjitha Match Works, Pioneer Match Works and Gnanam Match Works. The total number of the partners of all the 5 firms does not exceed 1 0 or II in number.
3.  Rajamoney Nadar is the sole proprietor of Shenbagain Match Works and in the other 4 firms there are more than one partner. In the year 1948 a son from each of those firms in his representative capacity formed a partnership to carry on the business of banking and commission agents, the principal business being the marketing of the products of the different match factories in Sivakasi. When the said partnership applied for registration for the assessment year 1949-50, it was refused by the Income-tax Department on the ground that different firms could not constitute a valid partnership. Thereafter, Sankaralinga Nadar, Arumughaswami Nadar, Arunachala Nadar, Palaniswamy Nadar and Rajamoney Nadar the first four being one of the partners of their respective firms and the last being the sole proprietor of his firm, in their individual capacity entered into a part- nership for the aforesaid purpose and executed a partnership deed dated April 1, 1950. They presented the said deed of partnership to the Income-tax Officer for registration.
4.  The Income-tax Officer by his order dated October 27, 1952, registered the same under s. 26A of the Act: but the Commissioner of Income-tax under s.33B of the Act, cancelled the registration by an order dated October 23, 1954, and directed the assessment to take place as that of an unregistered firm. On appeal, the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal held, on a construction of the partnership deed and also on -the basis of some other circumstances, that the said deed "is not genuine and brought into existence only as a simulate arrangement, that the profits which are distributed under the deed to the individuals mentioned therein are not the true profits of those individuals." In short it held that the said partnership deed was not a genuine one. On a reference made to the High Court of Judicature at Madras, a Division Bench of that High Court, on a construction of the document, came to the conclusion that the Match Works were not the real parties to the partnership but the parties of the document were the real partners. Hence the present appeal.
5.  Learned counsel for the Revenue raises before us the following two points, namely, (i) the findings of the Appellate Tribunal was one of fact and that the High Court had no jurisdiction to canvass the correctness of its finding on a reference made under s. 66(2) of the Act, and (ii) the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal was the correct one and the High Court erroneously interfered with it.
6.  It is common place that under s. 66(2) of the Act a reference to the High Court lies only on a question of law. The scope of the provision has been elaborately considered by this Court in Sree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of income-tax, Madras([1956] S.C.R. 691) 1956 Indlaw SC 56. Therein the scope of the provision has been laid down under different propositions. On the basis of the judgment it cannot be gainsaid that if the order refusing registration goes beyond the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on the Income-tax Officer under s. 26A of the Act and the Rules made there under or if the decision depends upon the construction of the partnership deed or if there is no evidence to sustain the finding of the Tribunal, then the High Court will have jurisdiction to entertain the reference under s. 66(2) of the Act. In our view, the finding of the Tribunal falls squarelv under the said three heads. The relevant provisions of the Act read thus:
On July 11, 1967 respondents were served with a notice dated July 7 by which they were called upon to pay the aforesaid amount, failing which, they were warned, the amount was liable to be recovered as arrears of land revenue. On July 18, respondents filed the present Writ Petition in the High Court challenging the legality of the aforesaid notice.
In the auction held on March 27, 1967 for the retail vend known as "Biswan Meel", Sonepat, respondents offered the highest bid for a quota of 62,100 proof litres for which they became liable, under condition 14(iii) of the auction, to pay an amount calculated at the rate of Rs. 17,60 per litre, that is to say, Rs. 10,92,960.00. On the bid being knocked in their favour, respondents deposited a sum of Rs. 45,527.50, being 1/24th of the total amount payable by them, by way of security for the due performance of the terms of the auction, as required by condition No. 15(1) of the auction and Rule 36(22-A) of the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956 as amended. They started operating the vend from April 1, 1967.
4.  The successful bidder who is granted licence for retail sale of country liquor is required by condition No. 15(ii) of the auction read with Rule 36(23)(2), to pay the licence fee in 22 equal instalments, each instalment being payable before the 10th and 25th of every month, commencing on April 10. On the failure of the respondents to pay the instalments due for the periods ending with April 10 and 25, 1967, the Excise and Taxation Officer, Rohtak, gave them notices dated 15th and 25th April, 1967 calling upon them to make good the short-fall of Rs. 33,827.20 and Rs. 5,898.80 respectively, before April 20 and April 30, 1967. Since the respondents did not pay the amount, the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Headquarters, Haryana, gave them a notice calling upon them to show cause, within two days of the receipt of the notice, why their licence should not be cancelled u/s. 36(c) of the Punjab Excise Act, for their failure to comply with the terms of the auction in the matter of payment of the two instalments. By their reply dated May 12, 1967, the respondents stated that they were illiterate villagers, that the terms of auction were not explained to them, that the district of Rohtak was in the grip of a severe drought leading to a fall in the sale of liquor, that April being a summer month, the consumption of liquor was less as compared with the consumption during winter months and that, there was in fact no default on their part as alleged in the notice sent to them. On May 17, 1967, the Collector and Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, passed an order, after hearing the respondents, cancelling their licence u/s. 36(b) and (c) of the Punjab Excise Act with immediate effect and stating that the vend will be resold on May 23, 1967 at 10.00 A.M. in the office of the Excise and Taxation Officer, Rohtak, at the risk of the respondents.
5.  On May 22, 1967 respondents filed a Writ Petition (No. 900 of 1967) which was dismissed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana on May 26, on the ground that it was premature.
6.  In pursuance of the order dated May 17, the "Biswan Meel" vend, Sonepat, was re-auctioned on May 23, 1967, the highest bid received being of 15,000 litres, which in terms of money comes to Rs. 2,46,000.00 The difference between the amount which the respondents were liable to pay under their bid and the amount realised in the reauction comes to Rs. 7,41,577.40.
On March 16, 1967 the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, appellant No. 2 herein, announced by publication of a notice that excise auctions for the financial year 1967-68 will be held on March 27, 1967. The terms and conditions in regard to the auction of retail vends of country spirits were set out in a pamphlet issued along with the notice. Those terms and conditions did not accord with the rules then prevailing but were evidently announced so as to comply with the requirement of the new rules which were being brought into force. The amended rules issued by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Financial Commissioner) were published in the Government Gazette dated March 31, 1967 and came into effect on April 1, 1967.
The facts which give rise to Appeal No. 885 of are these: The Textile Commissioner published on October 10, 1962, a scheme called the Export Promotion Scheme providing incentives to exporters of woollen goods. The scheme was extended by a Trade Notice dated January 1, 1963, to exports of wooden goods to Afghanistan. Messrs. Indo-Afghan Agencies-hereinafter called the respondents a firm dealing in woollen goods at Amritsar exported to Afghanistan in September, 1963, woollen goods of the f.o.b. value of Rs. 5,03,471-73 nP. The Deputy Director in the office of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay issued to the respondents an Import Entitlement Certificate for Rs. 1,99,459 only/-. Representations made by the respondents to the Deputy Director and to the Union Government that they be granted Import Entitlement Certificate for the full f.o.b value of the goods exported failed to produce any response.
Aggrieved by the said order, the appellant filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Agra Bench. By order dated 26.08.2004, the ITAT allowed the appellant's appeal and set aside the order dated 29.04.2002 passed by the CIT by which he had cancelled/withdrawn the registration certificate.
11. The Revenue felt aggrieved by the order of the ITAT and filed appeal in the High Court at Gwalior Bench under Section 260-A of the Act. The High Court, by impugned order, allowed the appeal filed by the Revenue and set aside the order passed by the ITAT and restored the order of the CIT.
The appellant is a limited company registered under the Companies Act. It is a State Government Undertaking which is established with a view to develop and assist the State in the development of industrial growth centers/areas, to promote, encourage and assist the establishment growth and development of industries in the State of M.P. The appellant is an "assesse" under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act").
4. On 10.02.1999, the appellant filed an application in the format prescribed under Section 12-A of the Act to the Commissioner of Income Tax (hereinafter referred to as "the CIT") for grant of registration. According to the appellant, since they were engaged in public utility activity which, according to them, was for a charitable purpose under Section 2(15) of the Act, they were entitled to claim registration as provided under Section 12 (A) of the Act. Since the application for registration was delayed in its filing, the appellant also made an application for condonation of delay in filing the application.
5. By order dated 13.04.1999, the CIT (Gwalior) condoned the delay and granted the registration certificate as prayed for by the appellant. In clause 3 of the registration certificate, it was mentioned that the certificate is granted without prejudice to the examination on merits of the claim of exemption after the return is filed.
6. On 27.11.2000, the CIT issued a show cause notice to the appellant stating therein as to why the registration certificate granted to the appellant by order dated 10.02.1999 under Section 12A of the Act be not cancelled/withdrawn. The show cause notice also set out the factual grounds for the withdrawal of the registration certificate. The appellant was asked to reply the show cause notice. The appellant accordingly filed their reply and opposed the grounds on which the withdrawal/cancellation of the certificate was proposed.
7. By order dated 29.04.2002, the CIT did not find any substance in the stand taken by the appellant in their reply and accordingly cancelled/withdrawn the certificate issued to the appellant.
8. The appellant felt aggrieved and filed rectification application under Section 154 of the Act before the CIT on 04.07.2002 contending therein that the order of the CIT dated 29.04.2002 cancelling/withdrawing the registration certificate contains an error apparent and, therefore, it is required to be rectified or/and recalled. It was contended that once the CIT grants the registration certificate under Section 12A, he has no power to cancel/recall the certificate granted to the Assessee.
We are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in Suit No. 553 of 1969. It is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by Bharat Neon Signs firm being the defendant No. 2 in the original suit. At the time of the institution of the suit the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners. The present appellant who was the original defendant No. 1 claimed to be a partner. The main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant No. 2, Bharat Neon Signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question. It is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960. The firm Bharat Neon Signs first originated on 4th of October, 1960. As many as six persons were named in the partnership firm, on or about 4th of October, 1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of October, 1960 which is Exhibit-114 on the record. The said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling Bharat Neon Signs tubes. However, the document is silent as to where the business was started. On or about 24th of October, 1960 another partnership deed being Exhibit-69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant Girdharlal. The document is Exhibit-69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also. It may be mentioned that the partnership deed Exhibit-114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm. But thereafter when the partnership deed Exhibit-69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0.03 paise in a rupee. There is a third partnership deed Exhibit-70 which showed that the deceased tenant Girdharlal had died on 1st of February, 1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions, a new partnership deed being Exhibit-70 was executed on 22nd September, 1961. At this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0.03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only. In 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed Exhibit-117 on 1st April, 1965. This last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants Nos. 3, 4 and 5.
The appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other, one of which is involved in this appeal. The respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at Raikhad Ward, Ahmedabad. The respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father, for conducting the business in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works. The respondent had further alleged that the appellant No. 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him. It was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents Nos. 2, 4 and 5 in the name of respondent No. 2, M/s. Bharat Neon Signs
 The respondent M/s. Andhra Sugars Ltd. are the manufacturers of sugar, molasses etc. at their Tanuku, Taduvai & Bhimadole units and manufacturers of various inorganic chemicals at their Kovvur and Saggonda units. They were availing credit on inputs, capital goods and input services and utlising the same for payment of duty. It came to the notice of the Revenue that during the periods December, 2007, the respondent at their unit Saggonda, had taken credit of input services namely service tax paid on transportation charges upto the place of customers which according to the Revenue is inadmissible. Accordingly, show cause notice dated November 3, 2008 was issued to the respondent demanding the Cenvat Credit of Rs.3,87,763/- availed during the above mentioned period along with interest and proposing to impose penalty under Rule 15 of the Rules, 2004. The aforesaid show cause notice was duly adjudicated by the Assistant Commissioner, Eluru Division vide Order-in-Original No. 01/2009 dated January 9, 2009 confirming the demands initiated in the aforesaid show cause notice.