The principal point which arises for consideration in this case is whether the prosecution had established that smuggled gold bars had been seized from the respondent on August 9, 1969 at the Trichur Railway Station under Exh. P.1.
We are principally concerned in this case with the effect of section 97 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 (104 of 1976) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Amending Act') on any amendment made or any provision inserted in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code') by a State Legislature or a High Court prior to the commencement of the Amending Act, i.e., prior to February 1, 1977 in the different local areas in India where the Code is in force if they be inconsistent with the provisions of the Code as amended by the Amending Act.
In this appeal by special leave the order of the High Court is questioned.
The short question that arises for consideration in this appeal by special leave concerns the true scope and application of Section 80 of the Civil Procedure Code.
The question in this appeal is whether the grant of a mining lease for a period of ten years by the assessee can give rise to a capital gain taxable under section 45 of Income-tax Act, 1961.
In this appeal, the constitutionality of the Act is not questioned before us.
We shall now deal with the specific findings recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court.
The third ground that defendant No. 2 had not diligently attended to any pending proceeding is also not made out since no specific case is dealt with by the High Court which prima facie established that charge.
This appeal by certificate, poses an impor- tant question of law, as to whether, a court sale held in execution of a final decree, passed in a suit for recovery of mortgage money, can be upset under the provisions of section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, on the displace- ment of the preliminary decree upon which such final decree was based.
This appeal has been filed by the Mazdoor Sangh under a certificate granted by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
To our minds the question is a simple one and is capable of only one answer.
The sole question raised in the present appeals is about the justness and tenability of the approach of the High Court in reversing the finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal on the factum that the motor accident which occurred on 15th December, 2011 at about 10.30 P.M. was due to parking of the offending vehicle bearing No.HR-02-AF-8590 (Gas Tanker) in the middle of the road in a negligent manner.
These appeals take exception to the judgment and order dated 1st February, 2016 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in F.A.O. Nos.1179, 1180, 1181, 1182, 1183, 1318, 1452, 4596, 4597 & 4598 of 2013, whereby the High Court modified the award passed by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Yamuna Nagar, Jagadhari, on the finding that it was a case of "contributory negligence" and resultantly held that the claimants - injured were entitled to only 50% of the total compensation awarded to them including the enhanced compensation.
We think that the view of the Kerala High Court, that "all forest lands in this State are agricultural lands in the sense that they can be prudently and profitably exploited for agricultural purposes", is too wide. It is erroneous for the reasons we have already set out in our judgment in the case from the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The question has to be decided on evidence of actual or intended user for which land may have been prepared or set apart.
18. In the case before us now, the Tribunal said in its referring order:
"The Tribunal permitted the accountable person to raise the contention that the value of the forest lands has to be excluded as they were agricultural lands. So far as this contention was concerned, the following facts were not in dispute: viz., that the forest consisted of trees of spontaneous growth; that no operations in the nature of forest development were being carried on; and, that only operations in the nature of exploitation of the forest were being conducted. The accountable person, however, contended that these lands were capable of being brought under cultivation at a future date and that therefore they must be deemed to be agricultural lands. Reliance was sought to be placed upon the decision of the Madras High Court in Sarojini Devi v. Shri Krishna (AIR 1944 Madras p. 401) in which it was held that the expression 'agricultural lands' must be taken to include lands which are used or are capable of being used for raising any valuable plants or trees or for any other purpose of husbandry. The Tribunal was, however, of the view that in the said decision their Lordships did not intend to lay down a definition of the expression 'agricultural lands' for all purposes, and that, on the other hand, they clearly indicated that the expression admits of different interpretations and that it was only from the context of the particular enactment in which this expression is used that' its meaning has to be inferred. The Tribunal observed that the very wide definition of the expression 'agricultural lands' laid down in the above cited decision was not applicable to cases under the Estate Duty Act.
The Tribunal, therefore, negatived the contention of the accountable person that the forest lands had to be excluded from the value of the assessable estate of the deceased".
19. Thus, it is clear that the assessee, after having been given due opportunity to lead evidence to show that what was prima facie non-agricultural land, in the sense that it was covered by the spontaneous or natural growth of forests, was really agricultural land, had led no such evidence. It was not shown that the assessee or his predecessor in interest did anything to develop the forest in the sense that any particular trees were planted deliberately. It appears that the nature of exploitation of the forest lands was simply to give contracts for cutting of the trees. The assessee not having led any evidence of any intention to prepare or appropriate or ear-mark the land for any agricultural use or purpose, but', on the other hand, having contended that mere possibility of using such land for agricultural purposes in future was enough, could not be said to have discharged his onus of proof. After the assessee's admission that it was "forest land" which presumably prevented cultivation, no evidence was led as we have already observed to indicate any change of character of this land or its conversion into agricultural land. We therefore think that the Appellate Tribunal was correct in expressing the view it had taken and the conclusions it had recorded. And, no case is made out for sending the case back to the Tribunal for any fresh decision.
20. Consequently, we allow thes
r on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was correct in law in having included the value of the forest lands in the total value of the Estate for the purpose of Estate Duty ?"
Civil Appeals Nos. 2000-2001 of 1969 from the judgment and order of the Kerala High Court are by grant of special leave by this Court filed on the ground that these appeals raise a question of wide general importance. This question was thus framed, in a reference made by the Madras Bench of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal u/s. 64(1) of the Estate Duty Act, 1953:
The present appeals raise an interesting question as to the correct interpretation of Section 2(22)(e) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended in 1988.
he appellants (Kalawati and others) are aggrieved by the judgment and decree dated 10th December, 2013 passed by a learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in R.F.A. No.521 of 2004.
Ease of business" and "enforcement of contract" are the two new buzzwords and rightly so. For ease of doing business insofar as justice delivery is concerned, it is time to introspect and introduce case management programmes to streamline the system so that suits and appeals can be decided more efficiently. The present appeal exemplifies the need for case management system.
he question, therefore, which has fallen for consideration is as to whether, the value of goods/material supplied or provided free of cost by a service recipient and used for providing the taxable service of construction or industrial complex, is to be included in computation of gross amount (charged by the service provider), for valuation of the taxable service, under Section 67 of the Act and for availing the benefits under Notification No. 15/2004-ST dated September 10, 2004 as amended by Notification No. 4/2005-ST dated March 01, 2005 (whereby an Explanation was added to Notification No. 15/2004-ST)
The petitioner challenges the admission of a number of candidates to the M.B.B.S. course in the Government Medical College Srinagar for the session 1980-81. The petitioner, who had also applied for admission, was denied it. She contends that the criteria adopted in granting admission, is discriminatory, unreasonable and void.
This is an appeal by the assessee by special leave and the question for decision is whether questions of law, if any, arise out of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.
Learned counsel appearing for the petitioners then submitted that admittedly there were 439 seats available in the General category, out of which only 300 candidates secured minimum qualifying marks i.e. 50% marks and 139 seats are lying vacant. Similarly in case of reserved category for SC/ST there were 96 seats out of which only 18 candidates secured 40% minimum qualifying marks and as such 78 seats are lying vacant.
common questions of facts and law arise for decision, these appeals are disposed of by a common judgment
This appeal by special leave is directed against the order of the High Court of Madras in a reference made to it by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal under s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act.
is an appeal by certificate granted by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana u/art. 133(1)(a) of the Constitution in regard to its judgment dated March 12, 1968 in Civil Writ No. 1
The question whether the Import Trade Policy is legislative in character has not been expressly dealt with in any decision of this Court
In passing the orders impugned by the respondents, the Textile Commissioner did not hold an enquiry consistent with the rules of natural justice.
The Textile Commissioner in the present case made his order without informing the respondents and giving them an opportunity to explain the materials on the basis of which the "import entitlement" of the respondents was proposed to be reduced.
e Union of India, the Textile Commissioner and the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports have appealed to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court.
The main questions, that arise for consideration in this appeal, are four:
17. First, whether the CIT has express power to cancel/withdraw/recall the registration certificate once granted by him under Section 12A of the Act and, if so, under which provision of the Act?
18. Second, when the CIT grants registration certificate under Section 12A of the Act to the assessee, whether grant of certificate is his quasi judicial function and, if so, its effect on exercise of his power of cancellation of such grant of registration certificate?
19. Third, whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act can be applied to support the order of cancellation of the registration certificate granted by the CIT under Section 12A of the Act, in case, if it is held that there is no express power of cancellation of registration certificate available to the CIT under Section 12A of the Act? and
20. Fourth, what is the effect of the amendment made in Section 12AA introducing sub-clause(3) therein by Finance (No-2) Act 2004 w.e.f. 01.10.2004 conferring express power on the CIT to cancel the registration certificate granted to the assessee under Section 12A of the Act.
This appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 14.03.2007 passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Gwalior in Misc. Appeal(Income Tax) No.6 of 2005 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court allowed the appeal filed by the respondent and set aside the order passed by the ITAT and restored the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax.
29(2) no further appeal shall lie against any decision in appeal under sub-section (1) but the High Court may, for the purpose of satisfying itself that any such decision in appeal was according to law, call for the case in which such decision was taken and pass such order with respect thereto as it thinks fit."
The question is, can the High Court do so in law. The power of the High Court to revise the order is contained in section 29(2) of the Bombay Rent Act as applicable at the relevant time to Gujarat, The said provision reads as follows:
The main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the High Court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner. It is true that since after 4th of October, 1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question. It is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy
ion involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the High Court of Gujarat dated 21st of August, 1979.
Whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 13(1)(e) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the 'Rent Act') is' the ques
The question of law which needs determination in all these appeals is identical. It pertains to Cenvat Credit in respect of service tax paid on goods that are transported to the purchaser after the sale.