The learned District Magistrate found that the prosecution had established that the respondent had committed an offence under section 135(b) of the Customs Act and an offence under section 85 (ii) of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 and convicted him of those offences.
The respondent was sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- for the offence under section 135(b) of the Customs Act and in default of payment of fine to undergo simple imprisonment for six months.
No separate sentence was, however, awarded for the offence under section 85(ii) of the Gold (Control) Act.
The respondent preferred an appeal against the judgment of the learned District Magistrate before the Sessions Judge, Trichur and that appeal was dismissed.
The learned Judge of the High Court who heard the revision petition allowed it and set aside the conviction of the respondent and the sentence imposed on him on the ground that the prosecution had not established that the metallic bars which were seized from the respondent under Exh. P.1 were gold bars and, therefore, the conviction of the appellant could not be sustained.
The learned Judge found that the evidence of PW 3 who was examined in the case, the statement Exh. P.2 made by the respondent before the Special Customs Preventive Circle Superintendent, Kozhikode and the answer given by the respondent under section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code taken together were not sufficient to hold that the gold bars had been seized from the respondent under Exh.P.1.
He rejected the evidence of PW 3 on the ground that he had not the training or the qualification in the art of testing gold and that he had not conducted either the furnace test or the specific gravity test to determine the character of the metallic bars.
He was of the opinion that PW 3 had miserably failed in the witness box to give the impression that he was a competent person to certify that what were seized from the respondent were gold bars and that in the absence of any training or qualification to the credit of PW 3, it would be unsafe to rely on his evidence and conclude that what was seized from the respondent was gold.
So far as Exh. P.2 was concerned the learned Judge was of the opinion that as the said statement had not been specifically put to the respondent under section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code and as the person who had recorded it had not been 230 examined, no importance could be given to it.
In so far as the answer given by the respondent to the question put by the Court under section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which is set out above is concerned, the learned Judge observed that even assuming that it would have some value the prosecution could not seek to split that statement into various parts and rely on what it considered to be advantageous to establish its case.
Accordingly the learned Judge acquitted the accused.
The delay in filing that application was condoned.
The executing court upheld the plea of the judgment debtor, the appellant herein, relying upon sub-rule (3) of Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code and set aside the sale by its order dated February 20, 1979, since admittedly no such permission had been obtained by the decree holder.
The application under Rule 90 of Order 21 of the Code was dismissed as not pressed.
Another prayer made under Rule 89 of Order 21 of the Code was rejected on the ground that it had become infructuous.
The District Judge dismissed the revision petition on October 13, 1980.
The petition was allowed by the High Court holding that the case was governed by Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code as it was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh before the Amending Act came into force.
It may be stated here that both the executing court and the District Judge had upheld the contention of the judgment debtor that on the commencement of the Amending Act by virtue of section 97(1) thereof the local amendment made to Rule 72 of Order of the Code prior to that date ceased to operate and the Code as amended by the Amending Act applied to the case.
The High Court however took the view that since the Amending Act had not made amendment of any kind in so far as Rule 72 of Order 21 was concerned, the amendment made by the High Court of Allahabad to Rule 72 of Order 21 of the Code prior to the commencement of the Amending Act remained intact.
21 The High Court did not say anything on the question of condonation of delay in making the application under Rule 72(3) of Order 21 of the Code.
It however stated that the application under Rule 89 of Order 21 of the Code could still be considered by the executing court.
The first appellate court which the matter was carried in appeal by the plaintiffs dismissed the appeal on the ground that the plaintiffs' suit was not maintainable inasmuch as due notice under Section 80 C.P.C. had not been given.
A second appeal preferred by the appellants to the High Court at Patna did not meet with any success and it was dismissed in limine.
The Appellate Commissioner held that the value of the right to excavate the land in terms of money is included in the purchase price paid by the assessee for the land.
He rejected the argument of the assessee that the cost of acquisition of the said assets could not be determined.
He then proceeded to consider the cost of acqui- sition of such right and differing with the Income Tax Officer held that on the facts of the case the cost for the purpose of ascertaining the capital gains would be the total price of the land paid by the assessee, that is, Rs.27,260.
On all other points he upheld the order of the Income-tax Officer.
The Tribunal observed that the entire ownership of the property means the ownership of a bundle of rights and a limited interest which can be severed and disposed off for a speci- fied period in the form of lease or mortgage or the like is part of that bundle.
According to the Tribunal the purchase price paid by the assessee for the land includes therein a component of purchase price attributable to various kinds of interests embedded in the said land.
The Tribunal confirmed the order of the Appellate Commissioner and dismissed the appeal.
600 Arising from the said decision of the Tribunal.
The High Court opined that the right conferred on the lessee under the lease deed was also a capital asset in the hands of the assessee-lessor.
By giving a liberal meaning to the word "transfer" in section 2(47) of the Act the High Court held that there was a transfer of capital asset for a consideration of Rs. 5 lakhs under the instrument dated 10th September, 1970.
It was further held that the rights of owner of a land include a fight to grant the lease to ex- ploit the land.
The High Court answered the two questions in the affirmative and against the assessee.
The High Court granted a certificate under section 261 of the Act to appeal to this Court.
That suit was decided on June 5, 1950.
By that judgment the Patna High Court declared that the Act was ultra vires and wholly void and an injunction was issued restraining the State Government from enforcing the Act.
At the conclusion of the trial, the trial court held that the cost of management incurred by defendant No 2 over and above 12.1/2% of gross collection was excessive and the dependents should refund such excess amount.
Secondly, it held that the mistake in not notifying all the shares held by the plaintiff in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 3 at the first instance resulted in non collection of the dues and the plaintiff thereby had suffered.
The trial court held that the defendants being trespassers, the plaintiff owed no duty to them to make available to them the separated Jamabandi to facilitate collection of dues in the said Tauzis.
The trial court, therefore, held that the defendants should reimburse the plaintiff the amount he would have been able to collect from those tauzis during the period of their management.
Similarly, the defendants were liable to make good the loss caused on account of arrears or decrees which had been allowed to become barred.
The trial court directed that a commissioner should enquire into the above items.
Accordingly a preliminary decree was passed.
Against the said preliminary decree the defendants filed an appeal before the High Court.
Accordingly the Division Bench referred the case to a larger Bench on July 14, 1962.
By its judgment dated February 15, 1963 the Full Bench overruled the earlier decision in MD. Sir Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar (supra) and declared that the Act was constitutional.
The Division Bench which finally heard the appeal was of the view that though it was open to the State to notify only a fraction of an estate under section 3 (1) of the Act yet the defendants were not absolved from the duty of taking appropriate steps for the preparation of suitable collection papers in respect of the notified shares in Tauzis Nos. 718 and 300.
It held that the defendants were liable to compensate the plaintiff for not preparing the collection papers in time.
The Division Bench further held that even though the plaintiff had been told to file suits for rents in respect of unnotified share of the estate, the defendants were negligent in the matter of issuing certificates for recovery, some Of which were later on struck off.
The Division Bench also held that the material on the record did not indicate that necessary steps were taken by defendant No. 2 with regard to pending suits and execution proceedings and there was every 17 probability that loss had been suffered by the plaintiff on account of the inaction or failure to continue pending proceedings which amounted to wilful default and gross negligence.
The Division Bench agreed with the trial court that the defendants were liable to reimburse the plaintiff to the extent of Rs. 2,000 levied as penalty for non-payment of Agricultural Income Tax.
In so far as the cost of management of Rs. 43,507 which was in the order of 30 per cent of the gross collection was concerned while the trial court had allowed 12.112 per cent, the Division Bench allowed 25 per cent of the gross collection.
In other words the Division bench found that about Rs. 8,000 had been incurred as cost of management in excess of what was authorised.
The Division Bench found that the plaintiff was entitled to it.
The Division Bench held that section 31 of the Act did not give protection in respect of loss which was caused by wilful 540 default and gross negligence.
The appeal of the defendants was accordingly dismissed.
The cross objections of the plaintiff regarding certain matters disallowed by the trial court were also dismissed
The High Court granted in his case also a similar certificate by She same order on December 10,1964 but the said certificate was later on cancelled by the High Court on July 6, 1965.
The first ground on which the Division Bench has held that the A defendants were liable to pay damages is that defendant No. 2 had failed to get the collection papers prepared in respect of Tauzis Nos. 7/8 and 30 in time and thus caused loss to the plaintiff.
it may be stated here that the Division Bench accepted that it was open to the Government to notify even a fraction of a tenure under section 3 (1) of the Act
The High Court has observed thus: "It appears that it was on the basis of some arrears list submitted by the plaintiff of defendant No. 2 and without subjecting it to proper scrutiny, that a large number of certificate cases were hurriedly filed by the defendants at the time of the Tamadi in the middle of April 1950, and, it was, therefore, not strange that quite a large number of them had subsequently to be struck off, with the result that a considerable portion of the arrears of rents and profits of the plaintiff's estate remained unrealised and became time barred.
It is manifest that the loss caused to the plaintiff's estate on this account was due to the inaction of defendant No. 2 amounting to wilful default and gross negligence on his part.
The responsibility for such loss must undoubtedly lie with the defendants."
(underlining by us)
The trial court had held that it was due to the issue of a wrong notification at the first instance.
The sum of Rs.51570 was proportioned in as much as two-third was ordered as payable to the original plaintiffs and the remaining one-third to the transposed co-plaintiff.
In these circumstances, the execut- ing court ordered that both the valuations be incorporated in the sale proclamation.
Later the petition under Order 21 Rule 90 C.P.C. was formally dismissed in default in the above backgrround. On September 14, 1968, the auction sale was confined.
The High Court rejected all the legal pleas otherwise raised but certified as fit questions as raised to be answered by this Court, without framing any one of them as such.
The preliminary decrees for sale, details apart, besides striking the amount due payable in instalments, mentions the time for payment, further provides that in default of payment as provided, the plaintiff may apply to the Court for final decree for the sale of the mortgaged property; and on such application being made.
The Court then ordered and decreed that the mortgaged property in the preliminary decree afore-mentioned, or a sufficient part thereof, be sold and that for the purpose of such sale, the plaintiff shall produce before the Court or such Officer,, as it appoints, all the documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property.
Further in terms of sub- clause (c)(ii) of Clause (1) of Rule 2, the Court held the plaintiffs entitled to apply for a final decree, debarring the defendant from all right to redeem the property.
By its order dated May 13, 1974, the High Court of Calcutta issued a writ in the nature of mandamus to the respondents in that petition to consider the case of the petitioner for transfer back to his original place of posting in the Northern Region within two months from the date of the communication of that order.
That petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Delhi on March 11, 1981.
The Industrial Court decided in favour of the workers, but on a writ petition filed by the company, the award of the arbitrator was quashed and it was held that the workers were only entitled to proportionate bonus and not the minimum bonus 960 guaranteed by sec. 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.
The High Court has interpreted the words "working days in any accounting year" as meaning all those days of the year except holidays.
That was the interpretation which was placed upon the expression by the Industrial Court
In the present appeals, the moot question is whether the High Court committed manifest error in reversing the well considered decision of the Tribunal on issue No.1 answered against the respondents, instead concluding that it was a case of 50% contributory negligence on the part of the deceased driver of the Maruti Car.
8. After having perused the evidence of PW-7, Site Map (Ext. P-45) and the detailed analysis undertaken by the Tribunal, we have no hesitation in taking the view that the approach of the High Court in reversing the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal on issue No.1 has been very casual, if not cryptic and perverse. Indeed, the appeal before the High Court is required to be decided on fact and law. That, however, would not permit the High Court to casually overturn the finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal. As is evident from the analysis done by the Tribunal, it is a well considered opinion and a plausible view. The High Court has not adverted to any specific reason as to why the view taken by the Tribunal was incorrect or not supported by the evidence on record. It is well settled that the nature of proof required in cases concerning accident claims is qualitatively different from the one in criminal cases, which must be beyond any reasonable doubts. The Tribunal applied the correct test in the analysis of the evidence before it. Notably, the High Court has not doubted the evidence of PW-7 as being unreliable nor has it discarded his version that the driver of the Maruti Car could not spot the parked Gas Tanker due to the flash lights of the oncoming traffic from the front side. Further, the Tribunal also adverted to the legal presumption against the driver of the Gas Tanker of having parked his vehicle in a negligent manner in the middle of the road. The Site Plan (Ext. P-45) reinforces the version of PW-7 that the Truck (Gas Tanker) was parked in the middle of the road but the High Court opined to the contrary without assigning any reason whatsoever. In our view, the Site Plan (Ext. P-45) filed along with the charge-sheet does not support the finding recorded by the High Court that the Gas Tanker was not parked in the middle of the road. Notably, the High Court has also not doubted the claimant's plea that the Gas Tanker/ offending vehicle was parked without any indicator or parking lights. The fact that PW-7 who was standing on the opposite side of the road at a distance of about 70 feet, could see the Gas Tanker parked on the other side of the road does not discredit his version that the Maruti Car coming from the opposite side could not spot the Gas Tanker due to flash lights of the oncoming traffic from the front side. It is not in dispute that the road is a busy road. In the cross-examination, neither has any attempt been made to discredit the version of PW-7 nor has any suggestion been made that no vehicle with flash lights on was coming from the opposite direction of the parked Gas Tanker at the relevant time.
In view of above discussion, it is held that the claimants have proved that the accident has been caused by respondent no.1 by parking the offending vehicle bearing No. HR-02-AF-8590 on the middle of the road in a negligent manner wherein Vinod Saini and Smt. Mamta Saini have been died and claimants Archit Saini and Gauri Saini have received injuries on their person. Sh. Vinod Saini deceased who was driving ill fated car on that day cannot be held to be negligent in any way. Accordingly, this issue is decided in favour of claimants."
6. When the matter travelled to the High Court by way of appeal for enhancement of compensation, while accepting the claim of the claimants-injured for giving additional compensation, the High Court overturned the finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal in relation to issue No.1 and opined that it was a case of contributory negligence of the driver of the Maruti Car which met with the accident. The High Court answered the said issue in its judgment as can be discerned from paragraphs 14 & 15, which read thus:
"14. So far as the issue of contributory negligence is concerned, it has come in the testimony of Sohan Lal, PW-7, that the tanker/offending vehicle was parked without indicator but the same was visible from a distance of 70 ft. Moreover, a perusal of site plan Ex.P 45 reveals that the offending vehicle was not parked in the middle of the road.
15. In view of the statement of PW-7 and site plan Ex.P- 45, it is proved that the tanker/offending vehicle was visible from a distance of 70 ft. and not parked in the middle of the road. Therefore, in the concerned opinion of this Court, it is a case of contributory negligence."
he High Court had also mentioned the basis of this finding relating to two types of land about which it had disagreed with the Appellate Tribunal while agreeing with the Tribunal that 500 acres of rocky land was non-agricultural land.
tural land was "solely based on the absence of evidence or the assessee's failure to prove that the disputed forest lands are agricultu
Taking all these factors into consideration, the High Court reversed the view of the Trial Judge and concluded that Rakesh Kumar was entitled to a decree for specific performance of the agreement to sell dated 29th May, 1986 and for delivery of vacant, peaceful and physical possession of the land in dispute.
17. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we are not in favour of the view expressed by the High Court but subscribe to the view of the Trial Judge.
On the other hand, as far as Rakesh Kumar's readiness and willingness to execute the sale deed is concerned, the High Court noted that in his cross-examination recorded on 4th October, 2002 he explained that just prior to the date of entering into the agreement to sell, he had disposed of his house. Thus, he had sufficient funds available for investing and on this basis, he had agreed to purchase the land in dispute.
15. The High Court noted that even though Rakesh Kumar did not deposit the balance consideration for the grant of injunction in his favour, that was of no consequence and could not be held against him. We agree with the High Court only to this limited extent.
essed itself only to the question whether Rakesh Kumar was ready and willing to execute his part of the agreement to sell, at all times. The High Court took the view that rather than Rakesh Kumar, it was the defendants who were not willing to execute the sale deed. The High Court came to this conclusion on the basis of the requirement in terms of the agreement to sell that the defendants were obliged to obtain a 'no objection certificate' for executing the sale deed but they had not taken any steps in that regard. The High Court also relied on the affidavit by way of evidence filed by Rakesh Kumar about his capacity to pay the balance sale consideration. It was also noted by the High Court that the lawyer's notice sent by him on 16th May, 1987 had not been responded to by the defendants. On a consideration of these factors, it was clear that the defendants were not interested in executing the sale deed.
The Trial Judge also noted that from his cross-examination it was evident that Rakesh Kumar did not have the resources and sufficient money to purchase the disputed land. He was in possession of only one truck and was earning Rs.10,000/- per month. He was not assessed to income tax and he filed his income tax return for the first time in 1994.
mong the reasons given by the Trial Judge for coming to the conclusion that Rakesh Kumar was not ready and willing to execute the contract, at all times, was that at the time of grant of interim injunction prayed for by Rakesh Kumar in an application under Order XXXIX of Code of Civil Procedure while the suit was pending in the High Court, he was required to deposit the balance consideration as a pre-condition for restraining the defendants from selling, mortgaging, alienating or otherwise parting with possession with the land in dispute. The balance sale consideration was not deposited by Rakesh Kumar and therefore, the interim injunction prayed for by him was not granted. In the absence of any injunction against alienating the land in dispute, the defendants transferred it to defendant Nos.5, 6 and 7 in 1995.
Additionally, Rakesh Kumar himself was not ready and willing to perform his part of agreement and therefore no relief could be granted to him. It was also averred that Rakesh Kumar did not have the necessary finances to pay the consideration amount and so was not prepared to have the sale deed executed in his favour.
11. On the pleadings before him, the Trial Judge framed several issues but we are only concerned with the issue whether the plaintiff (Rakesh Kumar) was at all times ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement. This issue was answered in the negative by the Trial Judge and against Rakesh Kumar resulting in the dismissal of the suit.
This was more than it had said in its appellate order. The assessee company then made an application under s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act for requiring the Appellate Tribunal to state the case and refer it to the High Court but this application was dismissed, and then the company obtained special leave to appeal to this Court. Counsel for the assessee company contends that the questions of law arise out of the order of the Tribunal because the Tribunal has ignored the documentary evidence produced before it, has based it decision on irrelevant matters, has failed to consider crucial facts and has misdirected itself by assuming that the petitioner was a dealer from the very beginning which was contrary to the documents produced before it.
7.  S. 66 (1) of the Income-tax Act (hereinafter termed the Act) provides that any assessee may require the Appellate Tribunal to refer to the High Court any question of law arising out of its appellate order and it is the statutory duty of the Appellate Tribunal to draft the statement of the case and refer the question of law arising out of such order to the High Court but the primary requirement is that there must be a question of law arising out of the order. Should the Tribunal refuse to state the case as required under s. 66(1) of the Act on the ground that no question of law arises, the assessee has the right to apply to the High Court requiring the Appellate Tribunal to state a case and refer it to the High Court but again the essential consideration is the existence of a question of law. arising out of the order.
 cases were postponed for further hearing
14.7.1992 we passed a detailed order and so far as the admission rules fixing 50% of the marks to be obtained at the entrance examination as minimum qualifying marks for admission to the Post-Graduate medical courses are concerned the same were held to be legal and it was further held that no exception can be taken to the same.
On the conclusion recorded by the Tribunal that the partnership deed dated April 1, 1950 was in truth an instrument relating to an agreement to carry on business 'by all the sons who owned the five businesses of which the representatives signed the deed, the application submitted by the live named partners of the assessee did not conform to the requirements of rules 2 and 3 and the Income-tax Officer was bound to refuse registration. It is true that the, ground given by the Tribunal that the share of profits received by individual partners of the assessee was distributed by four of those partners who had entered into partnership contracts with other sons in the business of their respective match factories, standing independently of other grounds, may not be of much value in deciding whether all the partners of the match factories were intended to be partners of the assessee. It is open to a partner who receives his share in the profits of the firm to dispose of that share in any manner he pleases, and no inference from the distribution of the share of such profits alone can lead to the, inference that the sons who ultimately received the benefit of the profits are partners of the firm which had distributed the profits. But the Tribunal adverted to three circumstances. The terms of the deed of partnership purported to impose an obligation to pay Commission on the production of the five match factories, representatives of which sought to join as partners eo nomine. Imposition of such, an obligation was in the view of the Tribunal inconsistent -with the representatives of those factories being partners of the assessee in their individual capacities. Again it was found that Gnanam Match Works had contributed capital to the assessee directly and not through its representative.
31. These two circumstances, coupled with the ultimate distribution of profits by the individual partners among the partners of the match factories, led to the inference that each partner who signed the deed dated April 1, 1950 was acting not in his sonal capacity, but as representing his match factory. Granting that the evidence from which the inference was drawn was not very cogent, it was still exclusively within the province of the Tribunal to decide that question on the evidence before it, and its decision that in entering into the deed of partnership, the named partners represented their respective match factories, was not open to be canvas- sed in a reference under s. 66(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act.
32.   The High Court observed that cl. 16 of the partnership deed did no, impose any obligation upon the partners or their representatives of the five firms to pay commission as stipulated under that clause. Undoubtedly, there is no covenant expressly imposing such liability upon the mach factories, but it was open to the Tribunal from he incorporation of such an unusual covenant to infer that the named partners of the assessee were acting as representatives of their respective factories. To assume from the erms of cl. 16 that the owners of these match factories were not bound by the covenants contained in cl. 16 is to assume the answer to the question posed for opinion. There was also the circumstance that in the books of account of the Gnanam Match Works of which Palaniswamy Nadar was a representative, capital was debited as contributed to the assessee. This indicated that the Gnanam Match Works was directly interested in the partnership. If that factory had made an advance to Palaniswamy Nadar to enable the latter to contribute his share of the capital, the entry in the factory's books of account would have been in the name of its partner and not in the name of the assessee. That also is a circumstance justifying an inference that in entering into the deed dated April 1, 1950 Palaniswamy acted for and on behalf of all the partners of the Gnanam Match Works. Sharing of profits received by the named partners, with their partners in the respective match factories may not, as I have already observed, by itself be a decisive circumstance. But that did not authorise the High Court to disregard the find- ing of the Tribunal on a question which was essentially one of fact. When the High Court observed that they were satisfied that the Tribunal had not correctly appreciated the evidence in arriving at the conclusion that each Match factory was the real party in the instrument of partnership, they assumed to themselves jurisdiction which they did not possess.
If the larger firms cannot constitute members of a new partnership, some of the partners of those firms can certainly enter into a partnership shedding their representative capacity if they can legally do so. If they can do so, the mere fact that one of them borrowed the capital from a parent firm-we are using this expression for convenience of reference--or some of them surrendered their profits to the parent firm cannot make it anytheless a genuine firm. Nor does cl. 16 of the partnership deed detract from its genuineness: that clause does not create any right in the partnership to collect the commission; in view of the close Connection between the assessee firm and the parent firms, the parent firms were expected to effect all their sales through the assessee firm. If they did not and if they refused to pay commission, the assessee-firm could not enforce its right under the said clause. Cl. 22 in express terms emphasizes the separate identities of the assessee-firm and the parent firms, and cl. 23 declares that notwithstanding the fact that the loss to the assessee- firm has arisen on the sale or transaction relating to the match manufacturing concerns, the assessee-firm alone shall bear the loss and thereby indicates that the loss of the assessee-firm will not be borne by the parent firms. If the assessee-firm has a separate legal existence, the two circumstances relied upon by the Tribunal, namely, that Palaniswamy Nadar, one of the partners of the assessee-firm, brought in the capital from his parent firm or that the profits earned by some of the partners were surrendered to the parent firms, would be irrelevant. A partner of a firm can certainly secure his capital from any source or surrender his profits to his sub-partner or any other son. Those facts cannot conceivably convert a valid partnership into a bogus one.
20.  The Tribunal mixed up the two concepts, viz., the legality of the partnership and the ultimate destination of the partners' profits. It also mixed up the question of the validity of the partnership and the object of the individual partners in entering into the partnership. If to avoid a legal difficulty 5 individuals, though four of them are members of different firms, enter into a partnership expressly to comply With a provision of law, we do not see any question of fraud or genuineness involved. It is a genuine document and it complies with the requirements of law. It is not an attempt to evade tax, but a legal device to reduce its tax liability. The fact that all the partners of all the firms did not exceed 12 in number and if they chose all of them could have entered into the partnership indicates that there was no sinister innovative behind the partnership. As the Tribunal misconstrued the provisions of the partnership deed and relied upon irrelevant considerations in coming to the conclusion it did., the High Court rightly differed from the view of the Tribunal. In the circumstances, in view of the decision of this Court in Sree Meenakshi Mills' case([I956] S.C.R. 691), a question of law within the meaning of s.66(2) of the Act arose for decision. The High Court rightly answered the question in the negative.
 In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.
 But the Tribunal has held that the partnership is not a genuine one for the following reasons: (i) previously the firm entered into a partnership but the registration of the same was rejected; (ii) under cl. 16 of the partnership deed the firm has the right to collect the commission of the entire match production of the larger partnerships whether they effect their sales through the firm or not; (iii) the books of Gnanam Match Works show unmistakably that the capital was contributed not by Palaniswamy Nadar in his individual capacity but by the larger firm as such; and (iv) regarding the other three larger firms also the profit delivered by their representatives from the assessee firm was divided amongst all the partners according to their profit sharing ratio in the larger firms. On the other hand, the High Court found, on a construction of the relevant clauses of the partnership deed that the business was the business of the partners of the firm, alone and that the two circumstances relied upon by the Tribunal were irrelevant in acertaining whether the said partnership was real or not. We have already pointed out that the document ex facie discloses a valid partnership. The partnership was avowedly entered into by the partners in their individual capacity as their previous partnership in their representative capacity was not registered on the ground that such a part- nership was illegal.
he High Court allowed the Writ Petition and quashed the order cancelling the respondents' licence and calling upon them to pay the difference between the amount payable by them under their bid and the amount realised in the re-auction of the vend. It has given to the appellants a certificate to appeal to this Court u/art. 133(1)(a) of the Constitution since the subject matter in dispute was of the value of more than Rs. 20,000 at the time when the Writ Petition was filed, as also on the date of the proposed appeal.
But in a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution moved before the High Court of Punjab by the respondents for a writ or an order directing the Union of India, the Textile Commissioner and the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay, to issue a licence "permitting import of wool-tops, raw wool, waste and rags of the value of Rs. 3,04,012-73 nP", the orders of the Textile Commissioner and the Central Government were set aside. The High Court held that the Export Promotion Scheme specifically provided for granting certificates to import materials of the "value equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported", and the respondents were entitled to obtain import licences for an amount equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value, unless it was found on enquiry duly made under cl. 10 of the Scheme that the respondents had by "over invoicing" the goods disentitled themselves to the import licenses of the full value; that no such enquiry was made by the Textile Commissioner and that officer merely proceeded upon his "subjective satisfaction" that the respondents had 'over-invoiced" the goods exported; and that the Union Government acted on irrelevant grounds.
he Division Bench of the High Court placed reliance on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act and held that since there is no express power in the Act for cancelling the registration certificate under Section 12A of the Act and hence power to cancel can be traced from Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to support such order. In other words, in the opinion of the High Court, Section 21 is the source of power to pass cancellation of the certification granted by the CIT when there is no express power available under Section 12A of the Act.
13. It is against this order, the assessee felt aggrieved and filed this appeal by way of special leave before this Court.
On 20.12.2002, the CIT rejected the application filed by the appellant for rectification holding that there was no error in his order cancelling the registration certificate granted to the appellant. In other words, the CIT held that he had the power to cancel the certificate once granted by him and, therefore, the order for cancelling the registration certificate is legal and proper.
The trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting. It accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord. The suit, inter alia, was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting. There was an appeal before the Court of Small Causes, Bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the Court of Small Causes, Bombay on 18th of August, 1977, it was held that the learned Trial Judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting, change of user and breach of terms of tenancy. In the premises, the appeal was allowed. It may be mentioned that the respondent No. 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before. The respondent-plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works, and according to the terms of tenancy suit, the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works. The landlord had alleged that the appellant had closed that business and he was not using the premises in question for the purpose for which it was let to him. It was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant Nos. 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of Bharat Neon Signs. It was further alleged that the appellant had also unlawfully sublet one room of the suit premises to defendant No. 6 in Suit No. 553 of 1969 who was residing in that room. For the purpose of the Suit No. 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned, it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant Girdharlal Chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was Ahmedabad Fine Weaving Works.
7.  He has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with Defendants Nos. 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises. He contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises. It is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in City Civil Court. It may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the High Court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts. There was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership, inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm. These facts were accepted that there was a partnership. As mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial Judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being No. 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned, it was held by the learned trial Judge that there was unlawful subletting. There was a decree for possession.
The respondent being aggrieved by the Order-in-Original No. 01/2009 dated January 9, 2009 filed appeal before the Commissioner (Appeals), Guntur. Vide Order-in-Appeal Nos. 46/2011 (G) ST dated December 2, 2011, allowed the appeals by setting aside the Order-in-Original with consequential relief to the respondent. The Revenue challenged the Order-in-Appeal No. 46 of 2011 (G) ST dated December 2, 2011 by preferring appeal bearing Appeal No. E/510/2012-DB before the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Bangalore. The CESTAT vide final Order No. 26346/2013 dated August 14, 2013 dismissed the appeal filed by the Revenue holding that the same is covered by the decision of the High Court of Karnataka in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise and Service Tax, Bangalore v. ABB Ltd., Vadodara 2011 (23) STR 97 2011 Indlaw KAR 22 (Kar). Further, the CESTAT observed that the Revenue could not have filed appeals as per the instructions of the CBEC vide Circular F. No. 390/Misc./163/2010-JC dated August 17, 2011, as the amount involved is less than Rs.5 lakhs. Not satisfied with this outcome, the Revenue took the matter to the High Court in the form of Appeal No. 88/2014. The High Court vide its impugned judgment dated July 16, 2014 has dismissed the appeal filed by the Revenue holding that "on an identical issue, this Court dismissed Central Excise Appeal No. 31 of 2013. Hence, this appeal is also dismissed.