On behalf of the appellants, strong reliance was placed on the decision of a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Kerala in Nani Amma Nannini Amma v. State of Kerala.(2)
Mr. Harish Salve, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, without disputing that the grant of a lease would constitute a transfer of an ,asset, has raised the following two contentions:
601 (i) That conceptually there is no "cost of acquisition" which is attributable to the right of limited enjoyment transferred by the grant of the lease.
There is no nexus between the "cost of acquisition" of the free-hold land and the right granted under the lease.
For the same reason it is contended that there is no question of apportionment of such "cost of acquisition".
(ii) That since the cost of acquisition of the right granted under the lease cannot be determined the computation provisions under the Act cannot apply at all and as such sec- tion 45 of the Act is not attracted.
Reliance for this contention is placed on the judgment of this Court in C.I.T.v.B.C. Srinivas Shetty, 128 ITR 294.
But the plaintiff in the case before us, however, on the basis of the judgment of the High Court demanded on June 9, 1950 that he should be put back in possession of the estate whose management had been taken over from him.
It was pointed out by Mr. Ganguli, learned counsel for the appellant that the preliminary decree dated July 25, 1962 was a preliminary decree for sale passed in terms of Order 34 Rule 4 of the kind covered under Clause (c) (i) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 2 and the final decree dated March 6. 1963 was final decree for sale under Order 34 Rule 5 (3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It is on the strength of terms of both the decrees that Mr. Ganguli urged that the right to apply for the final decree arose from the terms of the preliminary decree and on the failure of the defendant making payments in terms thereof.
And since the preliminary decree of July 25, 1962 was displaced and substituted by the preliminary decree passed by the High Court in appeal, which was instantly satisfied, the foundation under the final decree stood removed.
It was further urged that the plain- tiff had lost the right to ask for a final decree, there was no compulsory need for the purpose or tee occasion to pass it.
It is also urged that the auction has become non-est having no legal foundation or sanction in law.
The well settled principle of the appeal being a continuation of the suit was pressed into service to contend that the final decree had no life of its own and could only be passed on an application moved by the plaintiff on the defendant's fail- ure to comply with the terms of the substituted preliminary decree.
Mr. Nariman, learned counsel appearing for the respondents on the other hand contended that there could not be a reverse process when the final decree had factually been passed and an auction sale in terms thereof had taken place bringing in the rights of the stranger auctionpurchas- ers.
It was suggested that the plaintiffs and the defendants could not settle the suit without the consent and participation of the auction purchasers to their detriment.
The case of the appellant is that since he had been reposted to the Northern Region with the seniority which he hold before he was transferred to the Eastern Region, the Corporation should consider his case for promotion to the higher cadre as on the date on which his immediate junior was promoted and if he is found fit he should be given such promotion and placed above his immediate junior in the seniority list.
He also claims that he should be accorded all consequential benefits.
It is contended on behalf of the Corporation that since the promotion in question one to be made on the basis of selection, the appellant is not entitled to any relief.
The main point urged before us is that the Selection Committee had committed an illegality in rejecting the claim of the appellant for being included in the select list in the year 1976 by relying upon the adverse entries which had been made in his confidential rolls which had not been either communicated to him or against which he had made representation which had remained undisposed of and which had been subsequently expunged.
The appellant in the present case has pressed before us for a similar relief as the adverse entries made against him have been since expunged.
he arguments of learned counsel for respondent that PW7 Sohan Lal has stated in his cross-examination that there was no fog at that time and there were lights on the Dhaba and the truck was visible to him due to light of Dhaba and he was standing at the distance of 70 feet from the truck being road between him and the truck and he noticed at the car when he heard voice/sound caused by the accident so the respondent no.1 is not at all negligent in this accident but these submissions will not make the car driver to be in any way negligent and cannot give clean chit to the driver of the gas tanker because there is a difference between the visibility of a standing vehicle from a place where the person is standing and by a person who is coming driving the vehicle because due to flash lights of vehicles coming from front side the vehicle coming from opposite side cannot generally spot the standing vehicle in the road that too in nights time when there is neither any indicator or parking lights nor blinking lights nor any other indication given on the back of the stationed vehicle, therefore, the driver of the car cannot be held to be in any way negligent rather it is the sole negligence on the part of the driver of the offending Gas Tanker as held in Ginni Devi and others' case (2008 ACJ 1572), Mohan Lal's case (2007 1 ACC 785 (Allahabad). It is not the case of the respondent that the parking lights of the standing truck were on or there were any other indication n the back side of the vehicle standing on the road to enable the coming vehicle to see the standing truck. The other arguments of learned counsel for respondent no.3 that the road was sufficient wide road and that the car driver could have avoided the accident, so the driver of the car was himself negligent in causing the accident cannot be accepted when it has already been held that the accident has been caused due to sole negligence of the driver of the offending stationed truck in the busy road. The proposition of law laid down in Smt. Harbans Kaur & others's case (2010 4 PLR 422 (P&H) and T.M. Chayapathi & another's case (2005 IV ACC 61 (AP) is not disputed at all but these authorities are not helpful to the respondents being not applicable on the facts and circumstances of the present case. Likewise, non-examination of minor children of the age of 14 and 9 years who lost their father and mother in the accident cannot be held to be in any way detrimental to the case of the claimants when eye witness to the occurrence has proved the accident having been caused by the negligence of respondent no.1/driver of the offending vehicle.
25. Moreover, in Girdhari Lal Vs. Radhey Sham and others, 1993 (2) PLR 109, Sudama Devi and others Vs. Kewal Ram and others, 2008 (1) PLR 444 and Pazhaniammal and others's case (2012 ACJ 1370) our own Hon'ble High Court has held that 'it is, prima facie safe to conclude in claim cases that the accident has occurred on account of rash or negligent driving of the driver, if the driver is facing the criminal trial on account of rash or negligent driving.'
26. Moreover, the respondent no.1/driver of the offending vehicle has not appeared in the witness box to deny the accident having been caused by him, therefore, I am inclined to draw an adverse inference against the respondent no.1. In this context, I draw support from a judgment of the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court reported as Bhagwanti Devi vs. Krishan Kumar Sani and others, 1986 ACJ 331. Moreover, the respondent no.1 has also not filed any complaint to higher authorities about his false implication in the criminal case so it cannot be accepted that the respondent no.1 has been falsely implicated in this case.
So far as the question of burden of proof is concerned, we think that to proceed on the assumption that all land is prima facie capable of cultivation, so that the State must prove that it is non-agricultural in order to establish that it could be the subject matter of legislation which was within Parliament's legislative competence, and, therefore, covered by the Act, is to mix up the question of legislative competence and that of taxability of what is, on the face of it, taxable as part of the estate or property of the assessee within the meaning of S. 5 of the Act set out above. Indeed,
 Learned Counsel appearing for the respondent stated before us that the lands under consideration had also been subsequently acquired by the Govt. and put to agricultural uses. There is, however, no finding or evidence before us to that effect. Apparently, the learned Counsel meant that forest land subsequent to the levy of estate duty had been acquired by the State to be converted and used for agricultural purposes. There being no evidence or finding of such a character before the events which attracted the estate duty, we cannot take notice of such a statement by Counsel. It is irrelevant for the purpose of the cases before us.
It is well known that the extensive areas of different varieties of plantation that we have got in this State were once forest lands, and it is also equally well-known that year after year large areas of forest lands in this State are being cleared and converted into valuable plantations. In the absence of exceptional circumstances such as the land being entirely rocky or barren for other reasons, all forest lands in this State are agricultural lands in the sense that they can be prudently and profitably exploited for agricultural purposes. There is no case that the forest lands concerned in this case or any part thereof are unfit for agricultural exploitation"
A reading of the amended definition would indicate that, after 31.05.1987, a "shareholder" is now a person who is the beneficial owner of shares holding not less than 10% of the voting power of the Company. Also, a new category has been added to the definition by introducing concerns in which such shareholder is a member or partner and in which he has a substantial interest. Explanation (3) of the amended provision states that "concern" means Hindu Undivided Family, firm, association of persons, body of individuals, or a Company and further goes on to state that a person shall be deemed to have a substantial interest in a concern other than a Company if he is, at any time during the previous year, beneficially entitled to not less than 20% of the income of such concern.
13. Shri Ujjwal A. Rana, learned advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellants, has argued before us that a judgment had been delivered by the very Division Bench in another case C.I.T. vs. Ankitech Private Limited reported in [2012] 340 ITR 14 (Del). The same Division Bench had arrived at a conclusion, following other judgments of other Courts and Tribunals, that the expression "shareholder" would continue to mean a registered shareholder even after the amendment, and that, this being the case, it is clear that the impugned judgment has taken an about turn and has sought to distinguish the earlier judgment when it was squarely applicable. He has also placed before us an order dated 05.10.2017 passed in Civil Appeal No. 3961 of 2013 [C.I.T., Delhi-II vs. Madhur Housing and Development Company] in which this Court has expressly affirmed the reasoning of the aforesaid earlier judgment. In his view, therefore, this judgment ought to have been followed, and if it had been followed, it is clear that the firm, not being a registered shareholder, could not possibly be a person to whom Section 2(22)(e) would apply.
14. As opposed to this, Shri Guru Krishnakumar, learned senior advocate, appearing on behalf of the Revenue, has sought to support the impugned judgment by pointing out that the impugned judgment itself has made a distinction between the facts in Ankitech (supra) and in the present case. According to him, the impugned judgment has reference only to the second limb of the amended definition, namely, to the limb which deals with any concern in which such shareholder is a member and not to the first limb, which deals with a shareholder being a person who is the beneficial owner of shares. According to him, therefore, the Division Bench rightly sidestepped the decision in Ankitech (supra) and correctly arrived at the conclusions to the two questions raised.
15. This then brings us to the Division Bench judgment in the present case. In para 17, after referring to various judgments referred to by us hereinabove, the Division Bench posed two questions to be answered by it as follows:-
"(1) To attract the first limb of Section 2 (22) (e) of the Act, is it necessary that the person who has received the advance or loan is a shareholder and also beneficial owner. To put it otherwise, whether both the conditions are required to be satisfied will depend upon the interpretation to be given to the words "being a person who is a beneficial owner of shares....." which was inserted by amendment in the aforesaid provision carried out by the Finance Act, 1987 w.e.f. 1st April, 1988.
(2) Whether the assessee who is a partnership firm can be treated as 'shareholder' because of the reason that it has purchased the shares in the name of the two partners."
16. It answered the first question by stating that the expression "being a person who is a beneficial owner of shares" would be in addition to the shareholder first being a registered shareholder of the Company. The Division Bench then states that, therefore, in order to attract Section 2(22)(e) both conditions have to be satisfied. So far as the second question is concerned, the Division Bench went on to state that a partnership firm can be treated as a shareholder but that it is not necessary that it has to be a registered shareholder.
17. We are of the view that it is very difficult to accept the reasoning of the Division Bench. It is not enough to say that Ankitech's case refers to the second limb of the amended definition, whereas the present case refers to the first limb, for the simple reason that the word "shareholder" in both limbs would mean exactly the same thing. This is for the reason that the expression "such shareholder" in the second limb would show that it refers to a person who is a "shareholder" in the first limb
In so far as the present appeal is concerned, the material on record clearly indicates that Rakesh Kumar did not have the necessary funds available with him to pay the balance consideration. His low income and low bank balance indicated his incapacity to make the balance payment. As far as his capacity to arrange for funds is concerned, it has come on record that Rakesh Kumar did take a loan from his cousin but that was only for his business and not for paying the balance consideration for the land in dispute. There is nothing on record to indicate that Rakesh Kumar could have not only repaid the loan taken from his cousin, but additionally, could have arranged sufficient funds to pay the balance consideration. It is very doubtful, and it is easy and reasonable to infer this, that Rakesh Kumar was incapable of meeting both liabilities.
Further, there is nothing on record to show that the plaintiff could have made arrangement for payment of the balance consideration amount to them. But, on the other hand the trial court has recorded the finding of fact to the effect that the correspondence between the parties and other circumstances would establish the fact that the plaintiff had no money for payment of balance sale consideration......."
 of these services. In para 13.5 thereof, reasons for issuing the exemption notifications were given. This para reads as under:
"13.5 The gross value charged by the building contractors include the material cost, namely, the cost of cement, steel, fittings and fixtures, tiles etc. Under the Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004, the service provider can take credit of excise duty paid on such inputs. However, it has been pointed out that these materials are normally procured from the market and are not covered under the duty paying documents. Further, a general exemption is available to goods sold during the course of providing service (Notification No. 12/2003-S.T.) but the exemption is subject to the condition of availability of documentary proof specially indicating the value of the goods sold. In case of a composite contract, bifurcation of value of goods sold is often difficult. Considering these facts, an abatement of 67% has been provided in case of composite contracts where the gross amount charged includes the value of material cost. (Refer Notification No. 15/2004-S.T. dated 10-9-2004). This would, however, be optional subject to the condition that no credit of input goods, capital goods and no benefit (under Notification No. 12/2003-S.T.) of exemption towards cost of goods are availed."
11. As already pointed out in the beginning, all these assessees are covered by Section 65(25b) of the Act as they are rendering 'construction or industrial construction service', which is a taxable service as per the provisions of Section 65(105)(zzq) of the Act. The entire dispute relates to the valuation that has to be arrived at in respect of taxable services rendered by the assessees. More precisely, the issue is as to whether the value of goods/materials supplied or provided free of cost by a service recipient and used for providing the taxable service of construction or industrial complex, is to be included in computation of gross amount charged by the service provider, for valuation of taxable service. For valuation of taxable service, provision is made in Section 67 of the Act which enumerates that it would be 'the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him'. Whether the value of materials/goods supplied free of cost by the service recipient to the service provider/assessee is to be included to arrive at the 'gross amount', or not is the poser. On this aspect, there is no difference in amended Section 67 from unamended Section 67 of the Act and the parties were at ad idem to this extent.
12. On a reading of the above definition, it is clear that both prior and after amendment, the value on which service tax is payable has to satisfy the following ingredients:
"a. Service tax is payable on the gross amount charged:- the words "gross amount" only refers to the entire contract value between the service provider and the service recipient. The word "gross" is only meant to indicate that it is the total amount charged without deduction of any expenses. Merely by use of the word "gross" the Department does not get any jurisdiction to go beyond the contract value to arrive at the value of taxable services. Further, by the use of the word "charged", it is clear that the same refers to the amount billed by the service provider to the service receiver. Therefore, in terms of Section 67, unless an amount is charged by the service provider to the service recipient, it does not enter into the equation for determining the value on which service tax is payable.
b. The amount charged should be for "for such service provided": Section 67 clearly indicates that the gross amount charged by the service provider has to be for the service provided. Therefore, it is not any amount charged which can become the basis of value on which service tax becomes payable but the amount charged has to be necessarily a consideration for the service provided which is taxable under the Act. By using the words "for such service provided" the Act has provided for a nexus between the amount charged and the service provided. Therefore, any amount charged which has no nexus with the taxable service and is not a consideration for the service provided does not become part of the value which is taxable under Section 67. The cost of free supply goods provided by the service recipient to the service provider is neither an amount "charged" by the service provider nor can it be regarded as a consideration for the service provided by the service provider. In fact, it has no nexus whatsoever with the taxable services for which value is sought to be determined"
13. A plain meaning of the expression 'the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him' would lead to the obvious conclusion that the value of goods/material that is provided by the service recipient free of charge is not to be included while arriving at the 'gross amount' simply, because of the reason that no price is charged by the assessee/service provider from the service recipient in respect of such goods/materials. This further gets strengthened from the words 'for such service provided or to be provided' by the service provider/assessee. Again, obviously, in respect of the goods/materials supplied by the service recipient, no service is provided by the assessee/service provider. Explanation 3 to sub- section (1) of Section 67 removes any doubt by clarifying that the gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include the amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service, implying thereby that where no amount is charged that has not to be included in respect of such materials/goods which are supplied by the service recipient, naturally, no amount is received by the service provider/assessee. Though, sub-section (4) of Section 67 states that the value shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed, however, it is subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3). Moreover, no such manner is prescribed which includes the value of free goods/material supplied by the service recipient for determination of the gross value.
14. We may note at this stage that Explanation (c) to sub-section (4) was relied upon by the learned counsel for the Revenue to buttress the stand taken by the Revenue and we again reproduce the said Explanation hereinbelow in order to understand the contention:
(c) "gross amount charges" includes payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and [book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called 'suspense account' or by any other name, in the books of account of a person liable to pay service tax, where the transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise.]" [emphasis supplied]
15. It was argued that payment received in 'any form' and 'any amount credited or debited, as the case may be...' is to be included for the purposes of arriving at gross amount charges and is leviable to pay service tax. On that basis, it was sought to argue that the value of goods/materials supplied free is a form of payment and, therefore, should be added. We fail to understand the logic behind the aforesaid argument. A plain reading of Explanation (c) which makes the 'gross amount charges' inclusive of certain other payments would make it clear that the purpose is to include other modes of payments, in whatever form received; be it through cheque, credit card, deduction from account etc. It is in that hue, the provisions mentions that any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and book adjustment is also to be included. Therefore, the words 'in any form of payment' are by means of issue of credit notes or debit notes and book adjustment. With the supply of free goods/materials by the service recipient, no case is made out that any credit notes or debit notes were issued or any book adjustments were made. Likewise, the words, 'any amount credited or debited, as the case may be', to any account whether called 'suspense account or by any other name, in the books of accounts of a person liable to pay service tax' would not include the value of the goods supplied free as no amount was credited or debited in any account. In fact, this last portion is related to the debit or credit of the account of an associate enterprise and, therefore, takes care of those amounts which are received by the associated enterprise for the services rendered by the service provider.
16. In fact, the definition of "gross amount charged" given in Explanation (c) to Section 67 only provides for the modes of the payment or book adjustments by which the consideration can be discharged by the service recipient to the service provider. It does not expand the meaning of the term "gross amount charged" to enable the Department to ignore the contract value or the amount actually charged by the service provider to the service recipient for the service rendered. The fact that it is an inclusive definition and may not be exhaustive also does not lead to the conclusion that the contract value can be ignored and the value of free supply goods can be added over and above the contract value to arrive at the value of taxable services. The value of taxable services cannot be dependent on the value of goods supplied free of cost by the service recipient. The service recipient can use any quality of goods and the value of such goods can vary significantly. Such a value, has no bearing on the value of services provided by the service recipient. Thus, on first principle itself, a value which is not part of the contract between the service provider and the service recipient has no relevance in the determination of the value of taxable services provided by the service provider.
17. Faced with the aforesaid situation, the argument of the learned counsel for the Revenue was that in case the assessees did not want to include the value of goods/materials supplied free of cost by the service recipient, they were not entitled to the benefit of notification dated September 10, 2004 read with notification dated March 01, 2005. It was argued that since building construction contract is a composite contract of providing services as well as supply of goods, the said notifications were issued for the convenience of the assessees. According to the Revenue, the purpose was to bifurcate the component of goods and services into 67%:33% and to provide a ready formula for payment of service tax on 33% of the gross amount. It was submitted that this percentage of 33% attributing to service element was prescribed keeping in view that in the entire construction project, roughly 67% comprises the cost of material and 33% is the value of services. However, this figure of 67% was arrived at keeping in mind the totality of goods and materials that are used in a construction project. Therefore, it was incumbent upon the assessees to include the value of goods/material supplied free of cost by the service recipient as well otherwise it would create imbalance and disturb the analogy that is kept in mind while issuing the said notifications and in such a situation, the AO can deny the benefit of aforesaid notifications. This argument may look to be attractive in the first blush but on the reading of the notifications as a whole, to our mind, it is not a valid argument.
18. In the first instance, no material is produced before us to justify that aforesaid basis of the formula was adopted while issuing the notification. In the absence of any such material, it would be anybody's guess as to what went in the mind of the Central Government in issuing these notifications and prescribing the service tax to be calculated on a value which is equivalent to 33% of the gross amount. Secondly, the language itself demolishes the argument of the learned counsel for the Revenue as it says '33% of the gross amount 'charged' from any person by such commercial concern for providing the said taxable service'. According to these notifications, service tax is to be calculated on a value which is 33% of the gross amount that is charged from the service recipient. Obviously, no amount is charged (and it could not be) by the service provider in respect of goods or materials which are supplied by the service recipient. It also makes it clear that valuation of gross amount has a causal connection with the amount that is charged by the service provider as that becomes the element of 'taxable service'. Thirdly, even when the explanation was added vide notification dated March 01, 2005, it only explained that the gross amount charged shall include the value of goods and materials supplied or provided or used by the provider of construction service. Thus, though it took care of the value of goods and materials supplied by the service provider/assessee by including value of such goods and materials for the purpose of arriving at gross amount charged, it did not deal with any eventuality whereby value of goods and material supplied or provided by the service recipient were also to be included in arriving at gross amount 'gross amount charged'.
The next contention on behalf of the petitioners is that the presence of a Government official on the Selection Committee vitiates its Constitution. It is stressed that the viva voce test to be acceptable should be conducted by persons who are men of high integrity, calibre and qualifications. There is no principle of law, so far as we know, disqualifying a Government official from participating on the Interview Committee merely because he is a Government official. Nor do we believe that a Government official cannot be a person of high integrity, calibre and qualifications. The Constitution of a Committee lies in the wisdom of the State Government and it is expected that men suitably qualified in every respect will be appointed to discharge the functions of the Committee. So long as the State Government acts bona fide and on the basis of relevant considerations it is not possible to say that the appointment of a Government official is obnoxious to the law.
According to the Regulations, it is asserted, a Selection Committee can either take into consideration the marks obtained in a qualifying examination or in the competitive test. Nor, it is said, can a viva voce examination be permitted as a vehicle for selection. The validity of holding a separate objective test is also assailed as also of assigning 35% of the total marks to it. The merit test is challenged on the ground that no curricula have been prescribed in relation thereto Objection to the objective test and the viva voce examination is based on the ground that they fall outside the scheme envisaged by the Regulations made by the Indian Medical Council for admission to the M.B.B.S. course. The respondents, however, question the validity of the Regulations. We are then referred by the petitioners to cls. (j) and (I) of s. 33, Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 in support of the contention that the power of the Council to make regulations extends to making regulations prescribing the examinations and tests for admission. It seems to us prima facie that those provisions do not authorise the Council to do so. But we refrain from expressing any final opinion in the matter as the Council is not a party before us. We are also not satisfied that the reservations permissible must be confined to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Nor do we find sufficient basis in the submission that there is arbitrariness in providing for 35 marks to a separate objective test in addition to the 35 marks earmarked for the qualifying examination. The grounds taken before us do not justify the conclusion that a competitive entrance examination is not permissible in law in addition to the qualifying examination. In regard to the sufficiency of the objective test, we are not satisfied that the absence of a prescribed formal curriculum vitiates the objective test.
ndeed, Shri M.K. Ramamurthi, learned counsel for the petitioners, states at the outset that he adopts the submissions urged in that case against the validity of the admissions granted for the purpose of rectification of regional imbalances, in regard to the invalidity alleged by the assigning of 30% marks to the viva voce examination and also in regard to the legal effect on the interview proceedings of the absence of some members of the Selection Committee during part of the proceedings. These points have been considered and disposed of by us in that writ petition, and those findings are of equal validity in these writ petitions also.
28. Besides this, learned counsel for the petitioners raises other contentions. He urges that the selections made are not in accordance with the Regulations framed by the Indian Medical Council under s. 33 read with s. 19A, Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and therefore violate the fundamental right of the petitioner guaranteed u/art. 15 of the Constitution. It is contended that the Regulations are law and are enforceable in a court, and that if they are to prevail the only reservation permissible is that in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
There is one more contention, and that is that the respondents Nos. 7 to 12 did not apply for admission to the Principal, Government Medical College, Srinagar, and even if they are found to have done so their applications must have been submitted beyond the time prescribed as the qualifying examination in which they appeared was held late and the results were announced after the date prescribed for submitting the applications at Srinagar had expired. It appears from the record before us that inasmuch as the relevant examination was held late and the announcement of the results was delayed the State Government permitted the candidature of these applicants to be considered for inclusion in a common list drawn up to cover candidates for admission to either of the Government Medical Colleges, at Srinagar and at Jammu. Besides, it is conceded by the petitioner that those respondents have an excellent record and if they had applied in time for admission to the Government Medical College, Srinagar, they would certainly have been admitted on the basis of their merit. In the circumstances, we do not propose to interfere with the grant of admission to those respondents.
The next contention for the petitioner is that having regard to the number of candidates interviewed and the time applied to conducting the interview no more than two minutes or so could have been given on the average to the oral interview of each candidate, a period demonstrating, in the submission of learned counsel, that the selection process was conducted in a perfunctory manner and there was no real application of the mind to the selection of candidates. The State Government maintains that the time spent was four minutes per candidate. We have given the matter our anxious consideration, and we are unable to hold that there is adequate material for striking down the selection on this ground. But here again the State Government would do well to note the observations made by this Court in Ajay Hasia 1980 Indlaw SC 244 (supra) in this matter, and to ensure that Selection Committees take care to devote sufficient time to the oral interview of individual candidates having regard to the several relevant considerations which must enter into their judgment respecting each candidate.
It was also contended that it never carried on any business in the purchase or sale of shares, securities or properties and therefore prayed that in view of the order of the Central Board of Revenue made on its application under s. 26(1) of the Excess Profits Tax Act it should be assessed for income-tax purpose as an investor and not as a dealer. The Income-tax Officer rejected this plea and "held the investments as the stock-in-trade of its business therein which it carried on during the 'previous year' also ". The company took an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner which was dismissed and the order of the Income-tax Officer upheld. It then appealed to the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, where the same contentions were raised but were, repelled. The Tribunal said:
" The company having itself raised the point in all the prior years that it was a dealer in investments and properties, it would appear to be difficult to understand why the company now seeks to get the position changed and desires the Income-tax Officer to treat it as if it was not dealing in shares, securities and immoveable properties." The Tribunal after holding that the company was under no misapprehension when it claimed to be a dealer in investments in the earlier years because it was then always incurring losses and that the present contention was raised because it made "substantial profits" said:
"but we have no doubt that, according to the company's memorandum of association and its own assertions made all along in the past, the assessee company is a 'dealer in investments and properties and the income arising to it on the sale thereof has been rightly held by the Income-tax Officer to be business profits liable to tax under the ordinary provisions of the Income-tax Act."
5.  Thus the grounds on which the case was decided against the assessee were (1) that the assessee claimed to be a dealer or an investor according as it incurred losses or made profits and (2) that because of the objects contained in the memorandum of association and because of its assertion made in the past as being a dealer the assessee could not be held to be an investor. The company then applied to the Appellate Tribunal under s. 66(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act for a reference of the following questions for the opinion of the High Court:
"(1) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the assessee company can rightly be treated as a dealer in investments and properties; and (2)Whether the profits and losses arising from the sale of shares, securities and immoveable properties of the assessee company can be taxed as-business profits." This prayer was rejected because in the opinion of the Tribunal no question of law arose out of its order. It said :
" The Tribunal did not decide this point merely because the company's memorandum of association gave power to the company to deal in investments and properties, but it was actually found that the company had dealt in investments and properties throughout and had also all along in the past asserted that it was a dealer in investments and properties.
An argument was raised in the aforesaid case that the State Government had no power to lay down further eligibility qualification for being considered for admission in the Post-Graduate courses, in addition to the eligibility criteria laid down by the Medical Council in its regulations but the aforesaid contention was negatived and it was held as under :-
"The order in question merely specifies a further eligibility qualification for being considered for selection for admission to the post-graduate courses (degree and diploma) in the Medical Colleges in the State in accordance with the criteria laid down by Indian Medical Council. This does not in any way encroach upon the Regulations that have been framed under the provisions of S. 33 of the Indian Medical Council Act. On the other hand in order to promote and further the determination of standards in institutions for higher education, the State Government who runs these colleges provide an additional eligibility qualification
It was also submitted that there is a great dearth of Post-Graduate doctors in the country and it would not only be a sheer wastage of money in paying salaries and other emoluments to the teachers but also in the maintenance and upkeep of infra-structure available for teaching in the various disciplines of Post-Graduate Courses. It has been further submitted that it would not only be in the interest of the petitioners but also in the national interest if the vacant seats are filled by lowering the minimum percentage of qualifying marks in the entrance examination.
has been contended that in all 217 seats are lying vacant and large number of Professors and Readers meant for imparting teaching in the various disciplines of Post-Graduate courses shall remain idle and the Government shall have to unnecessarily spend large funds for meeting their emoluments.
contended on behalf of the petitioners that as a result of the application of the aforesaid rule a large number of seats have remained vacant and in view of the observations made in Dr. Ambesh Kumar etc. etc., v. Principal, LLRM Medical College Meerut and Ors. etc. etc. [1987] 1 SCR 6611986 Indlaw SC 245 such a situation must be avoided and the remaining seats should be filled up by applying different criteria
.  Dr. Rajiv Dhavan and Sri Satish Chandra, learned senior counsel for the Doctors, in fairness, also did not dispute that prescription of 50% minimum marks as eligibility criteria to seek admission into the postgraduate courses to be in any way arbitrary. However, Dr. Dhawan contended that the initial press note inviting applications for the entrance examination did not say that 50% minimum marks in the entrance examination as a condition for admission into the postgraduation. G.O. 4215 only mentions 50% of qualifying M.B.B.S. marks and not 50% in entrance as eligibility. Therefore, denial of admission for non- securing 50% cut off in entrance examination is illegal. The doctrine of promissory estoppel was also pressed into service. It is further contended that the Doctors satisfied the criteria laid in G.O. 4215. The High Court's order was justified on this base. Shri Yogeshwar Prasad, learned senior counsel for the State countered that this contention was not raised in the High Court and for the first time it cannot be raised. We find no force in the contention of the State. Though it was never raised, nor argued, since it is a pure question of law arises from record, it can be gone into. But on careful consideration of the record, we find no force in the Doctor's contention.
11. Though the first press note omitted, before conducting examination the second press note specifically stated that securing minimum of 50% of the marks in the entrance examination was a condition as eligibility for admission. What paragraph 3(e) of the first notification postulates is the computation of 50% of the marks secured in the entrance examination of 50% of the marks secured at the M.B.B.S. qualifying examination to determine the eligibility for admission i.e. 50% total and also in the order of merit among the candidates that appeared in the examination. The letter dated Feb. 20, 1990 does not appear to have been published in the gazette. We refrain to give acceptance to the respondent's contentions, as was laid in Dr. Sanjay Kumar's case, for the scheme and procedure laid by this court was adopted to have uniformity of institutional 75% candidates too. The technicality would not be permitted to outweigh the salutory scheme in the larger public interest. The contention of Shri Satish Chandra that merit-cum-option is the criteria and no criteria to determine 50% of the minimum marks was prescribed in paragraph 8(f) of the second G.O. therefore,procedure prescribed in paragraph 3(e) of the first G.O. 4215 should be followed and in calculating the candidates securing 50% cut off the marks would be eligible for admission is also devoid of force. The second G.O. expressly mentions that 50% minimum in entrance examination is a must for admission in postgraduate courses. Undoubtedly, the letter dated February 20, 1990 and the prescription of qualification laid down therein are not notified in terms of s.28(5) of the Act. So they may be considered to be administrative instructions. The second press note, in pursuance of which the entrance examinations were conducted, did mention them, which came into force from August 1, 1987. It is settled law that administrative instructions would fill in the yawning gaps in the statutory rules.
12. The statutory rules in paragraph 8(f) of the notification dated Oct. 9, 1990 which was given retrospective effect from August 1, 1987 envisages 50% cut off marks. Para 3(e) of first notification dated August 22, 1989 merely provides the procedure for calculating the marks to determine the inter-se order of merit among all the candidates and nothing more. The instructions issued in the letter dated February 20, 1990, therefore amplifies prescribing the eligibility criteria among the candidates who have taken entrance examination. The prescription of the minimum of 50% marks as eligibility criteria would be applicable to the respondents. Fairly, the respondents had not disputed before us that the instructions in the letter dated Feb. 20, 1990 were issued much earlier to the date of holding of the examination and as notified in the second press note. Therefore, the instruction dated Feb. 20, 1990 are legal, valid and they would supplement the statutory rules. We hold that the candidates who fulfilled that qualification alone would become eligible for admission. The learned counsel in fairness conceded that the prescription of minimum marks is valid. The prescription of 40% to SCs and STs candidates obviously was done under Arts. 14, 15 (1) and (4) and 46 together with 1.65% of total entrance marks i.e. 50 as weightage to them as a measure of social justice to accord them equality of opportunity of admission in postgraduate courses. It is neither a source, nor an analogy to fall back upon or to rely, as wrongly applied by the High Court, as a criteria to select general candidates that secured below 50% of the marks.
13.  Accordingly we hold that securing 50% marks at the entrance examination is one of the conditions precedent to become eligible for admission into the postgraduate degree and diploma courses. This is also consistent with the view expressed by this court in Dr. Ajay Kumar Agarwal's case. In the view we refrain to go into whether there actually exist vacant seats (if need be we would decide/get decided and suitable directions would follow).
14.  It is next contended by Sri Yogeshwar Prasad that the courses were started from October 30, 1990 and in terms of the orders of this court it shall be deemed to have been commenced from May 2, 1990, the direction as given in the impugned judgements for admission after more than a year, is illegal. To maintain excellence in the academic courses, the delay defeats the claim for admission, though posts are vacant. In Pramod Kumar Joshi v. Medical Council of India 1991 Indlaw SC 517, Writ Petition No. 1154 of 1990 dated February 19, 1991 this court held that the course for the year 1991 is almost completed and it would be proper to allow admission belatedly. In Dr. Subodh Nautial v. State of U.P. 1991 Indlaw SC 906, (Writ Petition No. 1215 of 1990 dated January 10, 1991) there is a delay of four months in giving admission, and this court held that, "even according to Mr. Pandey the course has started in September for the session. This is technical course and to admit a student four months after the commencement would not at all be correct."
The philosophy and pragmatism of universal excellence through equality of opportunity for education and advancement across the nation in part of our founding faith and constitutional creed. The effort must, therefore, always be to select the best and most meritorious students for admission to technical institutions and medical colleges by providing equal opportunity to all citizens in the country and no citizen can legitimately, without serious detriment to the unity and integrity of the nation, be regarded as an outsider in our constitutional set-up. Moreover, it would be against national interest to admit in medical colleges or other institutions giving instruction in specialities, less meritorious students when more meritorious students are available, simply because the former are permanent residents or residents for a certain number of years in the State while the latter are not, though both categories are citizens of India. Exclusion of more meritorious students on the ground that they are not resident within the State would be likely to promote substandard candidates and bring about fall in medical competence, injurious in the long run to the very region.
"It is no blessing to inflict quacks and medical midgets on people by wholesale sacrifice of talent at the threshold. Nor can the very best be rejected from admission because that will be a national loss and the interests of no region can be higher than those of the nation."
The primary consideration in selection of candidates for admission to the medical colleges must, therefore, be merit. The object of any rules which admissions to the medical colleges must be to secure the best and most meritorious students."
"In Dr. Dinesh Kumar & Ors. v. Motilal Nehru Medical College, Allahabad & Ors., [1987] 4 SCC 459 1987 Indlaw SC 28418 this court laid time table for conducting entrance examination in P.G. courses for All India Quota of 25%. "
 The court held thus :
"What remains now to be dealt with is the finalisation of Programme relating to the selection examination. As already decided the selection examination shall be conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The announcement for holding of the selection examination shall be made on October 1 of every year and a full four weeks' time would be made available to candidates for making their applications. After the applications are received not later than six weeks from October 1, the same would be scrutinised and duly processed and admit cards would be issued. Examination shall be held on the second Sunday of January. The result of the examination shall be announced within four weeks from holding of the examination. Admission shall commence two weeks after the declaration of results. The last date for taking admission shall be six weeks from the date of the announcement of results but the Head of every institution shall be entitled to condone delay up to seven days for reasons shown and grounds recorded in special cases. The courses of study shall commence in every institution providing such study throughout the country from May 2. Notification announcing examination, publication of results and allotment of place of admission (keeping preference in view and our directions regarding preference of candidates) shall be published in two successive issues of one national paper in English having large circulation in every State and at least in two local papers in the language of the State as quickly as possible."
s even canvassed before the Tribunal. Manifestly such a question could not arise out of the order ,of the Tribunal, and none such was referred to the High Court. By the question actually referred, the Tirbunal sought the opinion of the High Court whether on the facts and circumstances refusal of the application for registration of the assessee was correct in law. If it was the case of the assessee that the conclusion of the Tribunal was based on no evidence, or that it was verse, the High Court could be asked to call for a reference from the Tribunal on that question. But that was never done. It is true that the object of enacting s. 26-A and the rules relating to the procedure for registration is to prevent escapement of liability to tax. But it is not necessary that before an order refusing registration is made, it must be established that there was evasion of tax attempted or actual. It is always open to a son, consistently with the law, to so arrange his affairs that be may reduce his tax liability to the minimum missible tinder the law.
34.  The fact that the liability to tax may be reduced by the adoption of an expedient which the law mits, is wholly irrelevant in considering the validity of that expedient. But where the law prescribes conditions for obtaining the benefit of reduced liability to taxation, those conditions, unless otherwise provided, must be strictly complied with, and if they are not so complied with, the taxing authorities would be bound to refuse to give the taxpayer the benefit claimed. When application for registration of the firm is made, the Income tax Officer is entitled to ascertain whether the names of the partners in the instrument are of sons who have agreed to be partners, whether the shares are properly specified and whether the statement about the shares is real or is merely a cloak for distributing the profits in a different manner. If all sons who have in truth agreed to be partners have not signed the deed or their shares are not truly set out in the deed of partnership, it would be open to the Income tax Officer to decline to register the deed, even if under the general law of partnership the rights and obligations of the partners eo nomine thereto may otherwise be adjusted. As a corollary to this, if the requirements relating to the form in which the petition is to be presented are not complied with, and the relevant information is withheld, the Income tax Officer may be justified in refusing registration.
Their main grievance that due publicity was not given to the reauction, as a result of which proper bids were not received, has been overlooked by the High Court and it merely dealt with the question whether the respondents themselves had notice of the reauction and whether the date of the re-auction ought to have been fixed by the Financial Commissioner himself and by no other person. The High Court is right that the respondents did have notice of the re-auction, as is clear from the order dated May 17, 1967 passed by the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Headquarters, Haryana, while cancelling the respondents' licence. It also appears clear that the date of the reauction need not be fixed by the Financial Commissioner himself. But there is no discussion whatsoever in the judgment of the High Court, on the question as to whether due publicity was given to the re-auction as required by the Rules. In paragraph 14 of their rejoinder-affidavit filed in the High Court on September 14, 1967, respondents had stated that it was incorrect that the re-auction was duly published in accordance with the Rules. Along with their rejoinder, respondents filed affidavits of three Sarpanchas, three members of the Panchayats and a Lamberdar to show that no notice whatsoever was given of the re-auction to the people in the vicinity of Biswan Meel village. The High Court has not even made a reference to these affidavits, while dealing with the particular point (namely, contention No. 2 before the High Court), which bears out what we have stated above that it really misdirected itself' while examining the contention raised by the respondents in regard to the absence of due publicity for the re-auction.
30.  This makes it necessary to remand the matter to the High Court in order to enable it to record its findings on two outstanding questions: (1) whether it was necessary according to the Rules which were in force at the relevant time to give adequate publicity to the re-auction and, (2) if so, whether such publicity was in fact given to the re-auction. If the officers of the State have defaulted in carrying out their obligation, if any, in the matter of giving due publicity to the reauction, the consequence could be that the respondents may not be liable to pay the difference between the amount which they were liable to pay and the amount realised in the reauction.
The Writ Petitions filed by the respondents in the High Court in the instant case are open precisely to the same objection which was upheld by this Court in Har Shankar (supra). They entered into a contract with the State authorities with the full knowledge of conditions which they had to carry out in the conduct of their business, on which they had willingly and voluntarily embarked. The occurrence of a commercial difficulty inconvenience or hardship in the performance of those conditions, like the sale of liquor being less in summer than in winter, can provide no justification for not complying with the terms of the contract which they had accepted with open eyes. The respondents could not therefore invoke the writ jurisdiction of the High Court to avoid the contractual obligation incurred by them voluntarily. On this ground alone, the State is entitled to succeed in this appeal.
ne of the contentions raised before the High Court was that the licence fee charged to the respondents, for failure to pay which their licence was cancelled, was not fee properly so called but was 'still head' duty or excise duty; and the rule requiring the payment of such duty, even when no quota of liquor was actually lifted by the licensee, was unconstitutional for the reason that there can be no liability to pay still-head duty or excise duty unless the licensee takes or lifts the liquor.
is no longer in dispute that the auction at which the respondents' bid was accepted is governed by the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956 as amended by the notification dated March 31, 1967 issued by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, which came into force on April 1, 1967. The amended rules, in so for as they are relevant for our purpose, read thus :
"36. (1) Subject to such changes as the Financial Commissioner may make each year before the annual auctions the Collector shall, on the basis of the probable sales during the next licence year determine, in the case of country liquor vends, the minimum quota of country liquor and the licence fee calculated thereon The minimum quota and the licence fee calculated thereon, for each vend shall be announced by the Presiding Officer at the time of auctions.
36. (16) Bids in respect of country liquor vends shall be received in terms of quota of country spirit in proof litres to be lifted during the whole year, and the successful bidder shall be liable to pay licence fee calculated by multiplying the quota bid by Rs. 17.6.
36. (22-A) A person to whom a country spirit shop has been sold shall deposit in a Government Treasury under head "Licence fee on country spirit" subordinate to Majo ead "X-State Excise Duties" by way of security an amount equivalent to one-twenty-fourth of the amount of the licence fee determined u/cl. (16) within a period of seven days of the date of auction and the aforesaid amount of security shall be refundable to him at the end of the year, unless the same or any part thereof is forfeited or adjusted against any amount of fee, duty or penalty due from him in respect of his licence. In the event of the amount of security deposit or any part thereof being forfeited or adjusted as aforesaid the deficiency shall be made good by him within seven days of the happening of such an event failing which the licence shall be liable to cancellation by the Authority by which it was granted.
36. (23) (2) A person to whom a country spirit shop is sold shall pay the amount or licence fee as calculated u/cl. (16) in 22 equal instalments, each instalment being payable on the 10th and 25th of each month starting from the month of April. In the event of failure to pay the instalment by the due date, his licence may be cancelled.
36. (23) (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-cl. (2)(a) the licensee shall be entitled to deduct from the amount of the licence fee to be paid by him such amount of still-head duty as may have been actually paid by him on the quota of country spirit actually lifted by him not exceeding the amount of such duty payable in respect of the quota bid by him at the time of auction.
36. (24) When a licence has been cancelled, the Collector or an Officer not below the rank of Excise and Taxation Officer authorised by him in this behalf may resell it by public auction or by private contract in accordance with the procedure laid down in this rule and any deficiency in the licence fee and all expenses of such resale or attempted resale shall be recoverable from the defaulting licensee in the manner laid down in s. 60 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914.
 The judgment of this Court in Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Madras v. M/s Amin Chand Mutha etc. ([1966] 1 SCR 262 1965 Indlaw SC 2) may also be usefully referred to. In that case, after the dissolution of a firm which was the holder of quota fight as an established importer, one of the partners applied to the Chief Controller to make a division of the quota rights between the partners. He also applied to the Joint Chief Controller who was the licensing authority for grant of a licence for the period January to June 1957 but in the application he could not mention his share in the quota right because the Chief Controller had not before the date of the application approved of the division of the quota right. After expiry of the period for which the licence was to be issued, the Chief Controller informed the applicant that instructions had been issued to the Joint Chief Controller about the division of the quota right. But the Joint Chief Controller declined to grant a licence to the applicant on the ground that the order of the Chief Controller had no retrospective operation. The applicant succeeded in obtaining an order from the High Court of Madras directing the Joint Chief Controller to grant a licence.
In these cases it was clearly ruled that where a person has acted upon representations made in an Export Promotion Scheme that import licences upto the value of the goods exported will be issued, and had exported goods, his claim for import licence for the maximum value permissible by the Scheme could not be arbit rarily rejected.
The orders which the Central Government may issue in exercise of the power conferred by s. 3 of the Imports and Exports Control Act may be executive or legislative. In exercise of that power, the Order was issued on December 7, 1955, that was clearly legislative in character. It appears 'that prior to the issuance of this notification several orders had been issued under the Defence of India Rules and under the Imports and Exports Act dealing with the grant of licences to import certain classes of goods. Those orders which are set out in the IVth Schedule to the Order were repealed by cl. 12 of the Order of 1955, and machinery for granting licences was set up by the Order dated December 7, 1955. Counsel for the respondents submitted that the Export Promotion Schemes published by the Government under paragraph-52 of the Government Notification dated December 29, 1954, must be deemed to be issued under s. 3 of the Imports and Exports Control Act, 1947, since the Schemes have been published in the Gazette of India, and contain general provisions relating to the grant of licences and impose restrictions upon the rights of citizens to carry on business in certain commodities.
No doubt the Government can bind itself through its officers by a commercial contract, and if it does so it must perform it like anybody else or pay damages for the breach. But this was not a commercial contract, it was an arrangement whereby the Government purported to give an assurance as to what its executive action would be in the future in relation to a particular ship in the event of her coming to this country with a particular kind of cargo. And that is, to my mind, not a contract for the breach of which damages can be sued for in a Court of law. It was merely an expression of intention to act in a particular way m a certain event. My main reason for so thinking is that it is not competent for the Government to fetter its future executive action, which must necessarily be determined by the needs of the community when the question arises. It cannot by contract hamper its freedom of action in matters which concern the welfare of the State."
Counsel for the Union said that the import and export policy of the Government is based on availability of foreign exchange.requirement of goods of foreign origin for internal consumption, economic climate in the country, and other related matters, and has in its very nature to be flexible, and on that account the power of the Government to modify or adjust it as the altered circumstances necessitate, cannot be restricted on the ground that promises made by the Government in different situations are not carried out, however amoral that claim may appear to be According to Counsel the Government is the sole judge of the validity of its actions in matters relating to Import and Export Policy, and the citizens who have acted on the representations of the Government have only such rights as the Government in its wisdom chooses to recognise or accept at any given time.
 behalf of the respondents it was contended that the Scheme was statutory in character and obliged the Textile Commissioner, unless the exporter was after due investigation under cl. 10 of the Scheme, shown to have "overinvoiced" the goods exported, to issue import certificates of the full value of the exports, and a person exporting goods in pursuance of the Scheme who was denied an import certificate of the full f.o.b. value could seek the assistance of the High Court by a petition for the issue of a writ under Art. 226 of the Constitution, for an order compelling the Textile Commissioner to carry out the obligations imposed upon him by the Scheme.
By notification dated January 1, 1963, the Scheme was extended to exports of woollen textiles and woollen goods to Afghanistan with effect from October 1, 1962. It was urged on behalf of the Union of India that the Export Promotion Scheme was administrative in character and the recital therein that the exporters will be entitled to import certificates equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value of the exports was a mere instruction issued by the Union Government to the Textile Commissioner it created no rights in the public generally or in the exporters who exported their goods in pursuance of the Scheme and imposed no obligations upon the Government to issue the import certificates.
he genesis of the export control scheme may first be noticed. The Imports and Exports (Control) Act 18 of 1947 was enacted on March 24, 1947 with the object of enabling the Central Government to continue to exercise the power to prohibit, restrict or otherwise control imports and exports which had till then been controlled by orders issued in exercise of the powers conferred by r. 84 of the Defence of India Rules, 1939, as extended by the Emergency Provisions (Continuance) Ordinance 20 of 1946. By s. 3 of that Act it was provided
In our considered opinion, the CIT had no express power of cancellation of the registration certificate once granted by him to the assessee under Section 12A till 01.10.2004. It is for the reasons that, first, there was no express provision in the Act vesting the CIT with the power to cancel the registration certificate granted under Section 12A of the Act. Second, the order passed under Section 12A by the CIT is a quasi judicial order and being quasi judicial in nature, it could be withdrawn/recalled by the CIT only when there was express power vested in him under the Act to do so. In this case there was no such express power.
22. Indeed, the functions exercisable by the CIT under Section 12A are neither legislative and nor executive but as mentioned above they are essentially quasi judicial in nature.
23. Third, an order of the CIT passed under Section 12A does not fall in the category of "orders" mentioned in Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The expression "order" employed in Section 21 would show that such "order" must be in the nature of a "notification", "rules" and "bye laws" etc. (see - Indian National Congress(I) vs. Institute of Social Welfare & Ors., 2002 (5) SCC 685 2002 Indlaw SC 341).
24. In other words, the order, which can be modified or rescinded by applying Section 21, has to be either executive or legislative in nature whereas the order, which the CIT is required to pass under Section 12A of the Act, is neither legislative nor an executive order but it is a "quasi judicial order". It is for this reason, Section 21 has no application in this case.
25. The general power, under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, to rescind a notification or order has to be understood in the light of the subject matter, context and the effect of the relevant provisions of the statute under which the notification or order is issued and the power is not available after an enforceable right has accrued under the notification or order. Moreover, Section 21 has no application to vary or amend or review a quasi judicial order. A quasi judicial order can be generally varied or reviewed when obtained by fraud or when such power is conferred by the Act or Rules under which it is made. (See Interpretation of Statutes, Ninth Edition by G.P. Singh page 893).
26. Relying upon the aforementioned rule of interpretation, this Court has held that the Government has no power to cancel or supersede a reference once made under Section 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. [See- State of Bihar vs. D.N. Ganguly & Ors. (AIR 1958 SC 1018 1958 Indlaw SC 68)]. Similarly, on the same principle it is held that the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act has no application to amend or rescind or vary a notification issued under Section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act for reconstituting the commission by replacement or substitution of its sole member except applicable for a limited purpose for extending the time for completing the enquiry. (See- State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Ajay Singh, AIR 1993 SC 825 1992 Indlaw SC 668). It is also held while construing the provisions of Citizenship Act that the certificate of registration of citizenship issued under Section 5(1)C of the Citizenship Act cannot be cancelled by the authority granting the registration by recourse to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. (See- Ghaurul Hasan vs. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1967 SC 107 and Hari Shanker Jain vs. Sonia Gandhi, AIR 2001 SC 3689 2001 Indlaw SC 19829). And lastly, while construing the provisions of the Representation of People Act, it is held that the Election Commission cannot, by recourse to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, deregister or cancel the registration of a political party under Section 29A of the Act for the decision of the Commission to register a political party under Section 29A(7) of the Act is a quasi judicial in nature. [See Indian National Congress(I) (supra)]
27. It is not in dispute that an express power was conferred on the CIT to cancel the registration for the first time by enacting sub-Section (3) in Section 12AA only with effect from 01.10.2004 by the Finance (No.2) Act 2004 (23 of 2004) and hence such power could be exercised by the CIT only on and after 01.10.2004, i.e., (assessment year 2004-2005) because the amendment in question was not retrospective but was prospective in nature.
28. The issue involved in this appeal had also come up for consideration before three High Courts, namely, Delhi High Court in the case of Director of Income Tax (Exemptions) vs. Mool Chand Kairati Ram Trust, (2011) 243 CTR(Del) 245, Uttaranchal High Court in the case of Welham Boys' School Society vs. CBDT, (2006) 285 ITR 74 2005 Indlaw UTT 41(Uttaranchal) and Allahabad High Court in the case of Oxford Academy for Career Development vs. Chief Commissioner of Income Tax & Ors. (2009) 315 ITR 382 2008 Indlaw ALL 904 (All).
29. All the three High Courts after examining the issue, in the light of the object of Section 12A of the Act and Section 21 of the General Clauses Act held that the order of the CIT passed under Section 12A is quasi judicial in nature. Second, there was no express provision in the Act vesting the CIT with power of cancellation of registration till 01.10.2004; and lastly, Section 21of the General Clauses Act has no application to the order passed by the CIT under Section 12A because the order is quasi judicial in nature and it is for all these reasons the CIT had no jurisdiction to cancel the registration certificate once granted by him under Section 12A till the power was expressly conferred on the CIT by Section 12AA(3) of the Act w.e.f. 01.10.2004.
While settling accounts at the close of the year, if the sum less than Rs. 1500 falls to the 0-03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts, the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and Rs. 1500 (fifteen hundred only) have to be paid in full to each of them two, and in those circumstances or if there be loss, the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore; and in the year or' losses, it has been decided to pay Rs. 1500 (fifteen hundred only) to each of them, after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the 'Reserve Fund' and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion:
The year of accounts of our partnership shall be Aso Vadi 30th day i.e. Diwali and the first account year is decided to be the Aso Vadi 30th day of Samvat Year 2017. While settling accounts at the close of the year, 33% amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures, viz interest, discount, rent of the shop, rent of the godown, insurance, brokerage, travelling, telegrams, postage, salaries of employees, etc. shall be carried to Reserve Fund and thereafter, in the sum that remains as net profit, the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under:
Secondly, it was emphasised by Mr. Mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage. It is evident from the sales-tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the Shops and Establishments Act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner. It was so in the Income Tax returns and assessments. Therefore, it was submitted that the Court of Small Causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice
The Appellate Court had considered the partnership deeds. One point was emphasised by Mr. Mehta, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner. It was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm. The firm started as emphasised by Mr. Mehta on 4th of October, 1960 and it was only on the 24th of October, 1960 the second partnership deed was -executed. Therefore, it was emphasised that there was a gap of time when there was user by the partnership firm of the premises in question when the appellant was not a member of the firm. It was emphasised that this aspect was not considered by the Court of Small Causes and the High Court, therefore, was justified in interfering with the findings of the Court of Small Causes. We are unable to agree. These deeds were there, the partners were crossexamined, there was no specific evidence as to from what date the firm started functioning from the particular premises in question
Whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact, in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in.a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
This was set aside in appeal. The Appellate Court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants Nos. 2 to 5 in the name of Bharat Neon Signs. Therefore, the first question that had to be decided by the Appellate Court being the Court of Small Causes, Bombay and if a revision lay before the High court was whether there was any genuine partnership. The partnership deeds were there, the appellant was not to share in the losses. The Court of Small Causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon. The High Court in revision reversed that finding. The first question therefore, is, whether the High Court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the High Court was right in so doing.
Having regard to the definition of 'input service' that was prevailing at the relevant time i.e. prior to April 1, 2008, the aforesaid contention of the Department cannot be accepted. As per the said definition, service used by the manufacturer of clearance of final products 'from the place of removal' to the warehouse or customer's place etc., was exigible for Cenvat Credit. This stands finally decided in Civil Appeal No. 11710 of 2016 (Commissioner of Central Excise Belgaum v. M/s. Vasavadatta Cements Ltd.) vide judgment dated January 17, 2018. The matter is squarely covered by the Board's Circular dated August 23, 2007, relevant portion whereof is as under:
"ISSUE: Up to what stage a manufacturer/consignor can take credit on the service tax paid on goods transport by road?
COMMENTS: This issue has been examined in great detail by the CESTAT in the case of M/s Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. vs CCE, Ludhiana [2007 (6) STR 249 2007 Indlaw CESTAT 56 Tri-D]. In this case, CESTAT has made the following observations:-
"the post sale transport of manufactured goods is not an input for the manufacturer/consignor. The two clauses in the definition of 'input services' take care to circumscribe input credit by stating that service used in relation to the clearance from the place of removal and service used for outward transportation upto the place of removal are to be treated as input service. The first clause does not mention transport service in particular. The second clause restricts transport service credit upto the place of removal. When these two clauses are read together, it becomes clear that transport service credit cannot go beyond transport upto the place of removal. The two clauses, the one dealing with general provision and other dealing with a specific item, are not to be read disjunctively so as to bring about conflict to defeat the laws' scheme. The purpose of interpretation is to find harmony and reconciliation among the various provisions".
Similarly, in the case of M/s Ultratech Cements Ltd s CCE Bhavnagar 2007-TOIL-429-CESTAT-AHM, it was held that after the final products are cleared from the place of removal, there will be no scope of subsequent use of service to be treated as input. The above observations and views explain the scope of the relevant provisions clearly, correctly and in accordance with the legal provisions. In conclusion, a manufacturer / consignor can take credit on the service tax paid on outward transport of goods up to the place of removal and not beyond that.
8.2. In this connection, the phrase 'place of removal' needs determination taking into account the facts of an individual case and the applicable provisions. The phrase 'place of removal' has not been defined in CENVAT Credit Rules. In terms of sub-rule (t) of rule 2 of the said rules, if any words or expressions are used in the CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 and are not defined therein but are defined in the Central Excise Act, 1944 or the Finance Act, 1994, they shall have the same meaning for the CENVAT Credit Rules as assigned to them in those Acts. The phrase 'place of removal' is defined under section 4 of the Central Excise Act, 1944. It states that,-
"place of removal" means-
(i) a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods ;
(ii) a warehouse or any other place or premises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be stored without payment of duty ;
(iii) a depot, premises of a consignment agent or any other place or premises from where the excisable goods are to be sold after their clearance from the factory;
from where such goods are removed."
It is, therefore, clear that for a manufacturer/consignor, the eligibility to avail credit of the service tax paid on the transportation during removal of excisable goods would depend upon the place of removal as per the definition. In case of a factory gate sale, sale from a non-duty paid warehouse, or from a duty paid depot (from where the excisable goods are sold, after their clearance from the factory), the determination of the 'place of removal' does not pose much problem. However, there may be situations where the manufacturer /consignor may claim that the sale has taken place at the destination point because in terms of the sale contract /agreement (i) the ownership of goods and the property in the goods remained with the seller of the goods till the delivery of the goods in acceptable condition to the purchaser at his door step; (ii) the seller bore the risk of loss of or damage to the goods during transit to the destination; and (iii) the freight charges were an integral part of the price of goods. In such cases, the credit of the service tax paid on the transportation up to such place of sale would be admissible if it can be established by the claimant of such credit that the sale and the transfer of property in goods (in terms of the definition as under section 2 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 as also in terms of the provisions under the Sale of Goods Act, 1930) occurred at the said place."