The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council had occasion to consider the scope and effect of Section 80 C.P.C. in an almost similar situation in Bhagchand Dagadusa and ors. v. Secretary of State for India in Council & Ors.(1)
In that case, though a notice had been issued by the plaintiffs under Section 80 C.P.C. on 26th June 1922, the suit was instituted before the expiry of the period of two months from the said date.
That contention did not find favour with the Privy Council and it was held that Section 80 is express, explicit and mandatory and it admits no implications or exceptions.
The Judicial Committee observed: "To argue as appellants did, that the plaintiffs had a right urgently calling for a remedy, while s. 80 is mere procedure, is fallacious, for s. 80 imposes a statutory and unqualified obligation upon the Court."
This decision was subsequently followed by the Judicial Committee in Vellayan v. Madras Proince.(7)
The dictum laid down by the Judicial Committee in Bhagchand Dagadusa v.Secretary of State for India.(3) was cited with approval and followed by a Bench of five Judges of this Court in Sawai Singhai Nirmal Chand v. Union of India.(1)
Therein the learned Judge has expressed the view that Sec.80 is not a provision of public policy and there is nothing in the Section expressly affecting the jurisdiction of the Court to try a suit instituted before the expiry of the period prescribed therein.
In Traders and Mining Ltd. v. C.I.T., 27 ITR 341, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court, interpreting the expression "transfer of a capital asset" held as under: “We think that the expression "transfer" in the section includes not only a permanent transfer but also a temporary transfer of title to the property in question and lease of mines for any period would fall within the ambit of section 12B of the Act.
It was also contended by Mr. Dutt that a transaction of a lease was not tantamount to a transfer of a title but that a mere contractual right was created.
We do not think that this argument is correct.
A lease of land is transfer of inter- est in the land and creates a right in rem: and there is a transfer of title in favour of the lessee though the lessor has right of reversion after the period of the lease termi- nates.”
This decision has been referred to with approval by this Court in R.K. Palshikar (HUF) v. Commissioner of Income. Tax, M.P. Nagpur, [1988] 3 SCC 549.
Viscount Simon in Gold Coast Selection Trust Ltd. v. Inspector of Taxes, 17 ITR 19 (supp) observed "valuation is not an exact science. Mathe- matical certainty is not demanded, nor indeed is it possi- ble.
In Traders and Mines Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (supra) the Income-tax Officer had also determined the cost of the lease hold fights on proportionate basis.
In Shetty's case the question was whether the transfer of the goodwill of a newly com- menced business can give rise to a capital gain taxable under section 45 of the Act.
This Court answered the ques- tion in the negative.
Referring to the charging section and the computation provisions under the Act this Court held that none of those provisions suggest the inclusion of an asset under the Head "Capital Gain," in the acquisition of which no cost at all can be conceived.
Good will generated in an individual's business was held to be an asset in which no cost element can be identified or envisaged.
It was also held that the date of acquisition of the asset is a material factor in applying the computation provisions pertaining to capital gains and in the case of self-generated good will it is not possible to determine the same.
The Court, however, has no power to go on fixing date after date, in postponing confirmation of sale to accommodate the defendant, as was held by this Court in Hukumchand v. Bansi- lal & Ors[1967] INSC 118; , [1967] 3 SCR 695.
Reference may also be made to Janak Raj v. Gurdial Singh and Anr, [1967] 2 SCR wherein it has been laid down that when no application for setting aside a sale has been made to the executing court or when one made under Rules 89 to 91 of Order 21 gets dis- missed, the court has no choice thereafter but to confirm the sale.
This Court made significant observation by spell- ing out the policy of protecting auction purchasers in the following words:
"The policy of the Legislature seems to be that unless a stranger auction-purchaser is protected against the vicissitudes ,of the fortunes of the suit, sales in execution would not attract customers and it would be to the detriment of the interest of the borrower and the creditor alike if sales were allowed to be impugned merely because the decree was ulti- mately set aside or modified.
[Underlining ours] However, this Court in Sardar Govindrao Mahadik & Anr v. v. Devi Sahai & Ors, [1981] INSC 206; [1982] 2 SCR 186, carved out an excep- tion in the case of the auction purchaser who was a decree- holder himself, denying to him the protection given in Janak Raj's case (supra) to the stranger auction purchaser.
In the above case Chandrachud, C.J. has observed thus: "The principle is well-settled that in accordance with the rules of natural justice, an adverse report in a confidential roll cannot be acted upon to deny promotional opportunities unless it is communicated to the person concerned so that he has an opportunity to improve his work and conduct or to explain the circumstances leading to the report.
Commissioner of Wealth-tax, Andhra Pradesh v. Officer-in-Charge (Court of Wards) Paigah, [1977] 1 S.C.R. 146 1976 Indlaw SC 503 where we have said:
"We think that it is not correct to give as wide a meaning as possible to terms used in a statute simply because the statute does not define an expression. The correct rule is that we have to endeavour to find out the exact sense in which the words have been used in a particular context. We are entitled to look at the statute as a whole and give an interpretation in consonance with the purposes of the statute and what legally follows from the terms used. We are to avoid absurd results. If we were to give the widest possible connotation to the words 'agricultural land', as the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court seemed inclined to give to the term 'agricultural land', we would reach the conclusion that practically all land, even that covered by buildings is 'agricultural land' is as much as its potential or possible use could be agricultural. The object of the Wealth Tax Act is to tax surplus wealth. It is clear that all land is not excluded from the definition of assets. It is only 'agricultural land' which could be exempted. Therefore, it is imperative to give reasonable limits to the scope of the agricultural land', or, in other words, this exemption had to be necessarily given a more restricted meaning than the very wide ambit given to it by the Andhra Pradesh Full Bench".
10. Learned Counsel for the respondents had sought to rely strongly upon State of Kerala & Anr. v. The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Wvg.) Co. Ltd. etc., [1974] (1) S.C.R. p. 671 1973 Indlaw SC 190, 682 where the question under consideration was whether the Kerala Private Forests (Vesting and Assignment) Act 26 of 1971, purporting to acquire forest lands held on Janmam right,' without payment of compensation, for implementing a scheme of agrarian reform by assigning lands or leasing them to poorer sections of rural agricultural population, was acquiring "agricultural land", for purposes' stated in. the Preamble to the Act before this Court for interpretation. This Court interpreted the Preamble as having the effect of an earmarking by Legislature of certain forest lands for conversion into land meant for agriculture.
11. We do not think that the forest land involved in Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Wvg.) Co. Ltds.' case 1973 Indlaw SC 190 (supra), which had become linked up with agricultural purposes and earmarked for them, by reason of a special statute for special purpose can bear comparison with forest land with "spontaneous" or natural and wild growths of forest, which is involved in the case now before us. The decision in Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Wvg.) Co.'s case 1973 Indlaw SC 190 (supra) obviously depended upon the special facts of that case and the character of provisions to be interpreted.
12. This Court keeping in view the special features of that case, in the context of certain judicial pronouncements mentioned in the statement of objects and reasons for the statute to be interpreted, observed there (at p. 683):
"It is, therefore, manifest that when the legislature stated in the Preamble that the private forests are agricultural land, they merely wanted to convey that they are lands which by and large could be prudently and profitably exploited for agricultural purposes".
Sarojni Devi v. Srikrishna, A.I.R. 1944 Mad. 401 and Megh Raj v. Allah Rakha, A.I.R. 1942 PC 27 and C.I.T. West Bengal, Calcutta, v. Raja Benoy Kumar Sahas Roy, [1957] 32 ITR 466 1957 Indlaw SC 165 the words "agricultural land" should be "interpreted in their widest significance"; and, secondly, that although the burden rested upon an assesee to establish an exemption from liability to estate duty in respect of any part of his estate, yet, if he claimed immunity on the ground that the subject matter does not fall within the ambit of the taxing power of the legislature imposing the duty, the Revenue had to establish that the subject matter involved is taxable.
This provision came up for consideration before a Bench of this Court in C.I.T., Andhra Pradesh vs. C.P. Sarathy Mudaliar, (1972) 4 SCC 531. In the context of the Assessee being a Hindu Undivided Family, the question of law set out in the aforesaid judgment is as follows:-
"Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the amounts of Rs.5,790 and Rs.39,085 could be deemed to be the dividend income of the Hindu undivided family in the respective assessment years?"
After setting out the aforesaid section, this Court held:
"6. Before a payment can be considered as dividend under Section 2 (6A)(e), the following conditions will have to be satisfied:
1. It must be a payment by a company not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A, any sum whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise by way of advance or loan.
2 (a) It must be an advance or loan to a shareholder, or
(b) a payment by the company on behalf or for the individual benefit of the shareholder, and
3. To the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits."
After stating that there is no dispute that the first and last conditions are satisfied, in the said case, the Court went into condition 2(a). This was answered by the Court as follows:
"8. The only surviving question is whether a loan advanced by a company to a H.U.F., which is the real owner of the shares, can be considered as a loan advanced to its shareholder. It is well-settled that an H.U.F. cannot be a shareholder of a company. The shareholder of a company is the individual who is registered as a shareholder in the books of the company. The H.U.F., the assessee in this case, was not registered as a shareholder in books of the company nor could it have been so registered. Hence, there is no gain-saying the fact that the H.U.F. was not the shareholder of the company. Mr. Sen did not contend otherwise.
9. Section 2 (6A)(e) gives an artificial definition of "dividend". It does not take in dividend actually declared or received. The dividend taken note of by that provision is a deemed dividend and not a real dividend. The loan granted to a shareholder has to be returned to the company. It does not become the income of the shareholder. For certain purposes, the Legislature has deemed such a loan as "dividend". Hence, Section 2 (6A) (e) must necessarily receive a strict construction. When Section 2(6A)(e) speaks of "shareholder", it refers to the registered shareholder and not the beneficial owner. The H.U.F. cannot be considered as a shareholder either under Section 2 (6A)(e) or under Section 23A or under Section 16(2) read with Section 18(5) of the Act. Hence, a loan given to an H.U.F. cannot be considered as a loan advanced to a "shareholder" of a company."
7. This judgment was followed by another judgment of this Court in M/s Rameshwari Lal Sanwarmal vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Assam (1980) 2 SCC 371 which again arose in the context of a Hindu Undivided Family. Sarathy Mudaliar's case was followed in this judgment, and it was expressly stated that there was no conflict between this judgment and another judgment, namely, C.I.T. vs. Rameshwari Lal Sanwarmal, (1972) 4 SCC 342, and that the Revenue's contention to refer Sarathy Mudaliar's case to a larger Bench was turned down.
8. The effect of these two judgments is clearly to hold that before Section 2(6A) (e) of the 1922 Act can be attracted, the "shareholder" referred to in the said provision must be a shareholder whose name is on the register of members of the Company. When the Income Tax Act, 1961 came into force and repealed the 1922 Act, the definition of "dividend" contained in Section 2(22)(e) was as follows:-
"Section 2. Definition - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(22) "dividend" includes-
(e) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder, being a person who has a substantial interest in the company or any payment by any such company on behalf or for the individual benefits, of any such shareholder, to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits;"
9. A cursory look at the aforesaid definition would go to show that the shareholder referred to in the aforesaid provision would continue to be a shareholder who is on the register of members of the Company with one additional feature, namely, that such shareholder should be a person who has a substantial interest in the Company. Admittedly, the aforesaid additional feature would make no difference to the position of law laid down in the aforesaid two decisions.
..Further, the plaintiff is required to prove the fact that right from the date of execution of the agreement of sale till the date of passing the decree he must prove that he is ready and has always been willing to perform his part of the contract as per the agreement
Court noted that the plaintiff is required to prove that from the date of execution of the agreement of sale till the date of the decree, he was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract.
I.S. Sikandar (Dead) by Lrs. v. K. Subramani &Ors. (2013) 15 SCC 27 2013 Indlaw SC 862 t
The factum of readiness and willingness to perform plaintiff's part of the contract is to be adjudged with reference to the conduct of the party and the attending circumstances. The court may infer from the facts and circumstances whether the plaintiff was ready and was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. The facts of this case would amply demonstrate that the petitioner/plaintiff was not ready nor had the capacity to perform his part of the contract as he had no financial capacity to pay the consideration in cash as contracted and intended to bide for the time which disentitles him as time is of the essence of the contract."
 His Holiness Acharya Swami Ganesh Dassji v. Sita Ram Thapar (1996) 4 SCC 526 1996 Indlaw SC 3930
Matter can be looked into from another angle as well. In the case of Commissioner, Central Excise and Customs, Kerala v. M/s. Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (2016) 1 SCC 170 2015 Indlaw SC 575 This Court was concerned with exemption notifications which were issued in respect of 'taxable services' covered by sub-clause (zzq) of clause (105) read with clause (25b) and sub-clause (zzzh) of clause (105) read with clause (30a) and (91a) of Section 65 of Chapter V of the Act. This Court in the aforesaid judgment in respect of five 'taxable services' [viz. Section 65(105)(g), (zzd), (zzh), (zzq) and (zzzh)] has held as under:
"23. A close look at the Finance Act, 1994 would show that the fixed taxable services referred to in the charging Section 65(105) would refer only to service contracts simpliciter and not to composite works contracts. This is clear from the very language of Section 65(105) which defines 'taxable service' as 'any service provided'.
Further, while referring to exemption notifications, it observed:
"42. ...Since the levy itself of service tax has been found to be non-existent, no question of any exemption would arise."
It is clear from the above that the service tax is to be levied in respect of 'taxable services' and for the purpose of arriving at 33% of the gross amount charged, unless value of some goods/materials is specifically included by the Legislature, that cannot be added.
Besides, almost 10 years before this Court in A. Peeriakaruppan, etc. v. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors. [1971] 2 S.C.R. 4301970 Indlaw SC 164 had expressed its disapproval of the earmarking of 75 marks for the interview test out of 275 marks.
Our attention has been drawn to the observations of this Court in Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib [1981] 2 S.C.R. 791980 Indlaw SC 244 where an allocation of more than 15 per cent of the total marks for the oral interview was regarded as arbitrary and unreasonable and liable to be struck down as Constitutionally invalid. It seems to us that the State Government would have done well to apply its mind seriously to the evaluation ratio between the three criteria adopted for admission. When the Government order of 23rd June, 1980 dividing the total marks between the three criteria was issued, there was ample evidence of the principle and practice adopted by examining bodies of high repute and status in the country.
ver six years ago, this Court in State of U.P. v. Pradip Tandon [1975] 2 S.C.R. 7611974 Indlaw SC 237 ruled that in the matter of admission of students to medical colleges a reservation in favour of candidates on the ground that they hailed from rural areas was unConstitutional. The Court repelled the argument that it was necessary to reserve seats for candidates from rural areas because they were handicapped in the matter of education. It also rejected the plea that as the number of marks obtained by candidates from rural areas in the qualifying test were much lower than the marks obtained by the general candidates that was an indication of the former's educational backwardness. Ray, C.J., speaking for the Court, observed:
"The reservation for rural areas cannot be sustained on the ground that the rural areas represent socially and educationally backward classes of citizens. This reservation appears to be made for the majority population of the State 80 per cent of the population of the State cannot be a homogeneous class. Poverty in rural areas cannot be the basis of classification to support reservation for rural areas."
15. The criterion adopted by the State Government cannot be accepted unless supported by other relevant considerations.
The selection of candidates for admission to the Government Medical College, Jammu for the academic year 1979-80 was challenged in this Court in Nishi Maghu v. State of Jammu and Kashmir [1980] 3 S.C.R. 12531980 Indlaw SC 303 and the Court held that "the classification made for rectification of regional imbalance without identifying the areas suffering from imbalance was vague and the selections made under that head were accordingly invalid". The Court directed that the seats reserved under that head should be added to the quota of seats earmarked for selection on the basis of merit and filled accordingly.
To draw a line between what is a question of law and what is a question of fact is not always easy. It is difficult to define this distinction which has given rise to a number of decisions, which it will be useful to discuss at this stage. In Stanley v. Gramophone and Typewriter, Limited (1908) 5 T.C. 358, 374) the Master of the Rolls discussed this question as follows : " It is undoubtedly true that, if the Commissioners find a fact, it is not open to this court to question that finding unless there is no evidence to support it.
9. If, however, the Commissioners state the evidence which was before them, and add that upon such evidence they hold that certain results follow, I think it is open, and was intended by the Commissioners that it should be open, to the court to say whether the evidence justified what the Commissioners held." These observations were explained by Hamilton J. in The American Thread Co. v. Joyce (1911) 6 T.C. 1) as implying that by giving the material on which their finding was based the Commissioners were inviting the court to determine whether on that material they could reason. ably arrive at the conclusion on which they did arrive. The House of Lords on appeal categorically confirmed that the Courts had no jurisdiction over conclusions of fact except to see whether there was evidence to justify them and that proper legal principles had been applied. Lord Clerk in Californian Copper Syndicate v. Harris (1904) 5 T.C. 159, 166) has laid down the test in the following words:
" the question to be determined being-Is the sum of gain that has been made a mere enhancement of value by realising a security, or is it a gain made in an operation of business in carrying out a scheme for profit- making."
10.  In that case the objects set out in the memorandum of association pointed distinctly to a highly speculative business and the mode of actual procedure of the company was also directed in the same direction. Taking into consideration the course of dealing of the shares by the company and also that the turning of investment to account was not merely incidental but was an essential feature of the business, speculation being among the appointed means of the company's business the court came to the conclusion that the company was carrying on a business. The Lord President in a Scottish case Cayzer, Irvine & Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue (1942) 24 T.C. 491, 501) stated the grounds on which the court can interfere with the finding of the Commissioner as follows:
"I think we have jurisdiction to entertain the question at law, which is whether the majority of the Commissioners were warranted on -the evidence in determining as they did. At the narrowest it is always open to this Court in a Stated Case to review a finding in fact on the ground that there is no evidence to support it." Lord Parker in Farmer v. Trustees of the Late William Cotton [19I5] A.C. 922,932) after referring to the difficulty of distinguishing between a question of fact and a question of law observed: " Where all the material facts are fully found, and the only question is whether the facts are such as to bring the case within the provisions properly construed of some statutory enactment, the question is one of law only." But this statement of the law was considerably modified in Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Lysaght [1928] A.C. 234) where it was held that if the issue before the court could be described as a "question of degree" the conclusion must be a question of fact.
11.  The Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. The Korean Syndicate, Ltd. (1921) 12 T.C, 181) was a case where a syndicate was registered for the purpose of acquiring and working concessions and turning them to account, and of investing and dealing with monies not immediately required. The syndicate acquired part of a right to a concession in Korea and then under an agreement described as a "lease", in consideration of receiving sums of money termed "royalties" but which were really percentages of profits made by assignee company, assigned the lease to a development company. Some moneys which were received from sale of certain shares obtained by the syndicate in exchange for shares originally acquired in the mining company were deposited in a bank. the Activities of the company were during the relevant period confined to receiving the bank interest and royalties, distributing the amount amongst its shareholders as dividend. The question for decision was whether the syndicate was carrying on a business and was therefore liable to excess profits duty. From these facts it was concluded that they were carrying on a business.
12.  Atkinson L.J. pointed out that merely because a company is incorporated it does not necessarily follow that it is carrying on business. Its memorandum only shows that the company was incorporated for a particular purpose but taking into consideration the surrounding circumstances and facts of the case it was concluded that the company was carrying on a business. In Great Western Railway Company v. Bater (1922) 8 T.C. 231, 244) the question for decision was whether a clerk held a -public office to fall within Sch. E. It was held that the determination by the Commissioners of questions of pure fact are not to be disturbed unless it should appear that there was no evidence before them upon which they, as reasonable men, could arrive at the conclusion which they came to. Lord Atkinson said: " What I have many times in this House protested against is the attempt to secure for a finding on a mixed question of law and fact the unassailability which belongs only to a finding on questions of pure fact. This is sought to be affected by styling the finding on a mixed question of law and fact a finding of fact." According to the dictum of Lord Wrenbury the question for the Court was whether on the facts found and stated by the Commissioners the clerk held the office within the meaning of the Act which was a question of law.
13.  In Lysaght v. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue (1928) 13 T.C. 511, 533, 534) the question for decision was whether the assessee was a resident and ordinarily resident in United Kingdom in the year of assessment. Lord Buckmaster said:.
" The distinction between questions of fact and questions of law is difficult to It is, of course, true that if the circumstances found by the Commissioners in the Special Case are incapable of constituting residence their conclusion cannot be protected by saying that it is a conclusion of fact since there are no materials upon which that conclusion could depend. But if the incidents relating to visits in this country are of such a nature that they might constitute residence, and their prolonged or repeated repetition would certainly produce that result, then the matter must be a matter of degree; and the determination of whether or not the degree extends so far as to make a man resident or ordinarily resident here is for the Commissioners and it is not for the Courts to say whether they would have reached the same conclusion." Jones v. Leeming [1930] A.C. 4I5) was a case where the respondent with three other -persons obtained an option to purchase a rubber estate in the Malay Peninsula. That estate along with another was sold at a profit. The Commissioners found that the respondent had acquired the property with the sole object of turning it over again at a profit and at no time had he the intention of holding it. This transaction was held not to be in the nature of trade nor the profits arising there from in the nature of income but they were accretions to capital and therefore not subject to tax under Case VI of Sch. D.
14.  In Cameron v. Prendergast [1940] 2 All E.R. 35, 40) the following test was laid down by Viscount Maugham:
"Inferences from facts stated by the Commissioners are matters of law, and can be questioned on appeal. The same remark is true as to the construction of documents. If the Commissioners state the evidence.............................................. it is open to the court to differ from such holding."In Bomford v. Osborne [1941] 2 All E.R. 426, 430) a farm was working as a mixed farm but as a single unit. The question for decision was whether the assessment could be apportioned one part being assessed as a farm and the other as a nursery. Viscount Simon laid down the test in the following words:
" No doubt there are many cases in which Commissioners, having had proved or admitted before them a series of facts, may deduce there from further conclusions which are themselves conclusions of pure fact. In such cases, however, the determination in point of law is that the facts proved or admitted provide evidence to support the Commissioner's conclusions." It was also held that this question was a mixed question of law and fact. Du Parcq J. in J. H. Bean v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd.( [1944] 2 All E.R. 279) held the following to be the test for determining whether the question is one of fact or law: " Unless the Commissioners, having found the relevant facts and put to themselves the proper question, have proceeded to give the right answer, they may be said, on this view, to have erred in point of law. If an inference from facts does not logically accord with and follow from them, then one must say that there is no evidence to support it. To come to a conclusion which there is no evidence to support is to make an error in law."
15.  In Edward v. Bairstow [1955] 3 All E.R. 48.) the respondent embarked upon a joint venture to purchase a spinning plant with the object of holding it for quick resale and at a profit. The General Commissioners found that there was no venture in the nature of trade but the court held that the facts found led inevitably to the conclusion that the transaction was a venture in the nature of trade and that the Commissioners' inference to the contrary was erroneous. Lord Simonds observed that: " To say that a transaction is, or is not, an adventure in the nature of trade is to say that it has, or has not, the characteristics which distinguish such an adventure. But it is a question of law, not of fact, what those characteristics.........are Lord Radcliffe pointed out:
" I think that it is a question of law what meaning is to be given to the words of the Income Tax Act "trade, manufacture, adventure or concern in the nature of trade" and for that matter what constitutes "profits or gains" arising from it. Here we have a statutory phrase involving a charge of tax, and it is for the courts to interpret its meaning, having regard to the context in which it occurs, and to the principles which they bring to bear on the meaning of income." and then laid down the test in the following words:
"When the case comes before the court, it is its duty to examine the determination having regard to its knowledge of the relevant law. If the case contains anything ex facie which is bad law and which bears on the determination, it is, obviously, erroneous in point of law. But, without any such misconception appearing ex facie, it may be that the facts found are such that no person acting judicially and properly instructed as to the relevant law could have come to the determination under appeal. "
16.  The dicta of Warrington L.J. in Cooper v. Stubbs [1925] 2 K.B. 753, 768, 772) that intervention by a court is proper only: missioners have come to their conclusion without evidence which should support it, that is to say, have come to a conclusion which on the evidence no reason-' able person could arrive at, or have misdirected themselves in point of law." and of Atkin L.J. that: to one conclusion of law..." were quoted with approval by Lord Radcliffe . A review of these authorities shows that though the English decisions began with a broad definition of what are questions of law, ultimately the House of Lords decided that a "matter of degree" is a question of fact and it has also been decided that a finding by the Commissioners of a fact under a misapprehension of law or want of evidence to support a finding are both questions of law.
17.  The Privy Council in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Laxminarain Badridas [1937] 5 I.T.R. I70, 179) 1937 Indlaw PC 3 said:
" No question of law was involved; nor is it possible to turn a mere question of fact into a question of law by asking whether as a matter of law the officer came to a correct conclusion upon a matter of fact. " Bose J. in Seth Suwallal Chhogalal v. Commissioner of Income-tax [1949] 17 I.T.R. 269, 277) 1948 Indlaw MUM 101 stated the test as follows:
"A fact is a fact irrespective of the evidence by which it is proved. The only time a question of law can arise in such a case is when it is alleged that there is no material on which the conclusion can be based or no sufficient material." Sufficiency of evidence was explained to mean whether the Income-tax authority considered its existence so probable that a prudent man ought under the circumstances of the case to act upon the supposition that it exists.
18.  The question for decision in Dhirajlal Girdharilal v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay[1954] 26 I.T.R. 736) 1954 Indlaw SC 76 was whether a Hindu undivided family was carrying on business in shares and it was held that this was a question of fact but if the Appellate Tribunal decided the question by taking into consideration materials which are irrelevant to the enquiry or partly relevant and partly irrelevant or based its decision partly on conjectures then in such a situation an issue of law arises, which would be subject to review by the court and the finding given by the Tribunal would be vitiated.
19. The result of the authorities is that inference from facts would be a question of fact or of law according as the point for determination is one of pure fact or a mixed question of law and fact and that a finding of fact without evidence to support it or if based on relevant and irrelevant matters is not unassailable.
20.  The limits of the boundary dividing questions of fact and questions of law were laid down by this court in Meenakshi Mills, Madurai v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras [1956] S.C.R. 691) 1956 Indlaw SC 56 where the question for decision was whether certain profits made and shown in the name of certain intermediaries were in fact profits actually earned by the assessee or the intermediaries. Taking the course of dealings and the extent of the transaction and the position of the intermediaries and all the evidence into consideration the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the intermediaries were dummies brought into existence by the appellant for concealing the true amount of profits and that the sales in their name were sham and fictitious and profits were actually earned by the assessee. The test laid down by this Court is to be found in the various passages in that judgment. Venkatarama Ayyar J. pointed out that questions of fact are not open to review by the court unless they a
Dr. Ambesh Kumar etc. etc. v. Principal LLRM Medical College Meerut and Ors. etc. etc., [1987] 1 SCR 661 1986 Indlaw SC 245.
"It is pertinent to mention in this connection that the number of seats allotted to each of the prescribed courses is on the basis of two seats per professor and there is a crying necessity in the State for more experts in various disciplines in Medicine and Surgery etc. It is incumbent on the State Government to see that all these seats earmarked for each of these disciplines or courses are filled up. It appears from Annexure D to the petition in C.A. No. 6119 of 1983 that quite a considerable number of seats in various disciplines were kept vacant as the applicants did not fulfill the eligibility qualification framed by the State Government by its aforesaid order and as a result several Professors and Assistant Professors who are meant for imparting teaching in these disciplines were kept idle though a considerable fund had to be expended for meeting their emoluments. It is for the State to consider and to see that the seats are filled up in all the disciplines and they are not left vacant in spite of a large number of applicants applying for admission in the various disciplines and the State Government has to evolve such criteria of eligibility that all the seats in different M.D., M.S. degree and diploma courses are filled up".
State of Uttar Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Anupam Gupta etc., AIR 1992 S.C. 932 1992 Indlaw SC 334, it was held as under :
"Thus it could be seen that this Court consistently laid down the criteria for conducting entrance examination to the post graduate degree and diploma courses in Medicine and the best among the talented candidates would be eligible for admission. 50% cut off marks was also held to be valid to achieve excellence in post graduate speciality. Accordingly we uphold the prescription of 50% cut off marks to general candidates and 40% to SCs and STs together with 1.65% weightage of total marks i.e. 50 marks in total in entrance examination as constitutional and valid".
Ajay Kumar Agrawal and Others. v. State of U.P. and others, [1991] 1 SCC 636 1990 Indlaw SC 574 observed as under :-
"It is not disputed that in Uttar Pradesh the prevailing practice was a 50 per cent for allowing Post Graduate Study to doctors with MBBS qualifications but taking their University examination as the base without any separate selection test, it is not the case of any of the parties before us that the selection is bad for any other reason. We are of the view that it is in general interest that the 50 per cent cut-off base as has been adopted should be sustained."
 Dr. Dhawan placed reliance on Jeevak Almast v. Union of India & Ors., AIR 1988 SC 1812 1988 Indlaw SC 702 wherein there was flux in selection of the candidates for M.B.B.S. course on all India basis and large number of vacancies left unfilled. Under these circumstances this court, instead of allowing them to go waste, directed to maintain A list and B list and the direction was given to admit the candidates in A list who secured on merit and thereafter to admit in the order of merit from less meritorious candidates in the B list. That peculiar situation would not help to the respondents herein in postgraduate specialised courses. That was for M.B.B.S. course arose in the peculiar situation and does not afford as a precedent. Exercise of equity jurisdiction and prescription of minimum cut of are mutually incompatible and counter productive. It would frustrated the excellence.
In Dr. Ambesh Kumar v. Principal, LLRM Medical College, Meerut & Ors., [1987] 1 SCR 661 1986 Indlaw SC 245 this court upheld the Government's power under Art. 162 and held that where the number of seats for admission to various postgraduate courses both degree and diploma are limited and large number of candidates undoubtedly apply for admission to those courses of study, an order laying down qualifications for candidates to be eligible for being considered for selection for admission to the said courses on the basis of merit specified by regulation cannot be said to be in conflict with the regulations of All India Medical Council Act. It does not encroach upon the standard prescribed by the statutory regulations. Laying down further qualifications of eligibility promotes and farthers the standard in the institutions. Thus it could be seen that this court consistently laid down the criteria for conducting entrance examination to the postgraduate degree and diploma courses in Medicine and the best among the talented candidates would be eligible for admission. 50% cut off marks was also held to be valid to achieve excellence in postgraduate speciality. Accordingly we uphold the prescription of 50% cut off marks to general candidates and 40% to SCs and STs together with 1.65% weightage of total marks i.e. 50 marks in total in entrance examination as constitutional and valid.
In Dr. Ajay Kumar Agarwal & Ors. v. State of U.P. & Ors., [1991] 1 SCC 636 1990 Indlaw SC 574 while approving the procedure laid down in Dr. Dinesh Kumar's case this court held that technicality in the issuance of the notification and non- compliance of statutory notificaiton in terms of s.28(5) of the Act would not stand in the way, stating thus, "There may be some force in the submission of the learned counsel, but we do not think in the present facts and setting of events and in particular for meeting the problem which has arisen we need approve a technical stand. "This court further stated, "It is not disputed that in U.P. the prevailing practice was 50% test for allowing postgraduate studies to Doctors with M.B.B.S. qualification....... We are of the view that it is in general interest that the 50% cut off base as has been adopted should be sustained. "It is, therefore, clear that technicality of non-compliance of s.28(5) in issuing the letter dated February 20, 1990 was nailed past and approved the prescription of 50% cut off minimum marks as eligibility for admission into P.G. course in medicine for 1990, though plausible to countenance the contention appeared to be of securing 50% in qualifying examinations in M.B.B.S. course. But the fact is that U.P. Govt., in fact, conducted entrance examination in 1990 and adopted 50% cut off as minimum marks.
In Dr. Dinesh Kumar & Ors. v. Motilal Nehru Medical College, Allahabad & Ors., [1987] 4 SCC 459 1987 Indlaw SC 28418 this court laid time table for conducting entrance examination in P.G. courses for All India Quota of 25%. "
In Pradeep Jain & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors., [1984] 3 SCC 654 1984 Indlaw SC 72. This court laid emphasis for admission of the candidates into medical colleges on merit to meet excellence in the medical services thus :
"Anyone anywhere, humble or high, agrestic or urban, man or woman, whatever be his language or religion, place of birth or residence, is entitled to be afforded equal chance for admission to any secular educational course for cultural growth, training facility, speciality or employment. It would run counter to the basic principle of equality before the law and equal protection of the law if a citizen by reason of his residence in State A, which ordinarily in the commonality of cases, would be the result of his birth in a place situate within that State, should have opportunity for education or advancement which is denied to another citizen because he happens to be resident in State B. It is axiomatic that talent is not the monopoly of the residents of any particular State; it is more or less evenly distributed and given proper opportunity and environment, everyone has a prospect of rising to the peak. What is necessary is equality of opportunity and that cannot be made dependent upon where a citizen resides. If every citizen is afforded equal opportunity, genetically and environmentally, to develop his potential, he will be able in his own way to manifest his faculties fully leading to all round improvement in excellence.
Sivakasi Match Export Company-hereinafter referred to as 'the assessee'-is a partnership "carrying on business as bankers, commission agents and distributors of the products of different match factories at Sivakasi in the State of Madras". The assessee was formed under a deed dated April 1, 1950. There were five partners of the firm (1) N. P. A. M. Sankaranlinga Nadar (2) K. S. S. Arumugha- swami Nadar (3) K. A. S. Arunuchala Nadar (4) K. P. A. T. Rajamoney Nadar and (5) V. S. V. P. Palaniswamy Nadar. Before April 1, 1950, there existed a firm also named Sivakasi Matches Exporting Company which "consisted of a combine of six match factories" at Sivakasi constituted under a partnership deed dated March 12, 1948. Registration of this partnership under s. 26-A of the Income-tax Act, 1922, was refused on the ground that the partnership deed did not specify the Actual shares of the individual partners. Thereafter a deed forming the partnership which is sought to be registered in these proceedings was executed on April 1, 1950. It was recited in the preamble that originally four out of the five partners had been carrying on business in partnership as representatives of their respective match concerns, and it was found necessary that they should carry on the said business from April 1, 1950, jointly in their individual capacity, and it was agreed to admit into their partnership as and from April 1, 1950 the fifth son, namely V. S. V. Palaniswamy Nadar. The following are the material paragraphs of the agreement of partnership:
 Strong reliance was placed by the respondents on the decisions of this Court in Bimal Chandra Banerjee v. State of Madhya Pradesh, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Firm Gappulal etc. and Excise Commissioner, U.P., Allahabad v. Ram Kumar in support of their contention that what they are called upon to pay by the Government is excise duty. In Bimal Chandra Banerjee, it was held by this Court that the levy of excise duty on undrawn liquor was beyond the power of the State Government and that therefore the rule imposing the condition to that effect was invalid. That decision was followed in the Madhya Pradesh case where also, the licensees were required to pay what was described as "Pratikar", which was nothing but excise duty on undrawn liquor. The same situation obtained in the U.P. case because, the real nature of the payment which the licensees were required to make there was excise duty on undrawn liquor.
In Panna Lal v. State of Rajasthan it was held by this Court that the licence fee stipulated to be paid by the licensees was the price or consideration or rental which the Government charged them for parting with its privilege and that it was a normal incident of trading or business transaction. It is true that the Court also said that no excise duty could be collected on undrawn liquor but it held that while enforcing the payment of the guaranteed sum or the stipulated sum mentioned in the licences, the Government was not seeking to levy or recover excise duty on undrawn liquor. In the instant case too, what the Government is trying to recover from the respondents is in essence the price of the privilege with which it has parted in their favour and not excise duty on undrawn liquor.
What is important for our purpose in this appeal is that the State of Punjab, which was respondent to the appeal in Har Shankar, (supra) raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the writ petitions filed by the appellants and that objection was upheld by this Court. The preliminary objection was that such of the appellants who offered their bids in the auctions did so with a full knowledge of the terms and conditions attaching to the auctions and that they could not be permitted to wriggle out of the contractual obligations arising out of the acceptance of their bids. Holding that the preliminary objection was well-founded, this Court observed:
If the matter were to rest there, as assumed by the respondents' counsel Shri Tirath Singh Munjral, the contention would be unassailable because the position would then approximate to the application of a mathematical formula: Bhajan Lal was affirmed by this Court; the judgment of the High Court in the instant case follows Bhajan Lal; the judgment under appeal must therefore be upheld. But after the decision of the High Court in Bhajan Lal (supra) was affirmed by this Court on August 21, 1972, the legal position has been further examined by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Har Shankar and Others. v. The Dy. Excise and Taxation Commissioner and Others. The learned Solicitor General places strong reliance on that decision and contends that the judgment of the High Court must, in the light of that decision, be over-ruled. We must proceed to consider the decision in Har Shankar straightaway.
In M/s. Bhajan Lal Saran Singh and Co. v. The State of Punjab and others, (Civil Writs Nos. 538 and 1991 of 1966), the High Court had struck down the relevant Rules of 1966 by holding that the levy, charge or recovery of any amount of still-head duty in respect of liquor which had not been actually lifted by the licensee was not justified and that the demand to that extent was liable to be quashed. In the instant case, since the liability under the 1967 rules was of a similar nature as the liability under the 1966 Rules, the High Court followed the Judgment in Bhajan Lal, (supra) quashed the levy and set aside the order whereby the respondents' licence was cancelled and they were called upon to pay the difference between the amount which they had agreed to pay under the terms of their auction and the amount realised in the re-auction of the vend
In The Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay v. The Secretary of State for India in Council (I.L.R. 29 Bom. 580), it was held by the Bombay High Court that even though there is no formal contract as required by the statute the Government may be bound by a representation made by it.' In that case in answer to a requisition by the Government of Bombay addressed to the Municipal Commissioner to remove certain fish and vegetable markets to facilitate the construction of an arterial road, the Municipal Commissioner offered to remove the structures if the Government would agree to rent to the Municipality other land mentioned in his letter at a nominal rent.
In Ramchand Jagadish Chand's case ([1962] 3 SCR 721961 Indlaw SC 174) a Committee was appointed to determine the value of the goods exported by the exporter and the Committee scrutinised the claim of the exporter and found that the rates of some of the items could not be accepted as reasonable, and recommended an import licence approximately of the value of 45 per cent. of the goods exported. The exporter was given a right to make a representation and to be heard before the order was passed to his prejudice. In Probhudas Morarjee Rajkotia and others v. Union of India and others (A.I.R. 1966 SC 1044 1966 Indlaw SC 405), a Special Exports Promotion Scheme for Engineering goods was promulgated by the Government of India. To give incentives to the manufacturers of engineering goods in India to export their products outside India, it was declared by the Scheme that import licences will be granted to exporters for materials upto the specified percentage of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported.
In M/s Ramchand Jagadish Chand v. Union of India and Ors. ([1962] 3 S.C.R. 72 1961 Indlaw SC 174) this Court was called upon to decide whether a person who had, pursuant to a representation in the Export Promotion Scheme that exporters will be awarded import licences upto a certain percentage of the export value of the goods was entitled to call upon the Union to issue in his favour import entitlement of the value of the goods exported. Under the 'Export Promotion Scheme" relating to artificial silk fabrics it was represented that with a view to stimulate exports of Indian "artsilk fabrics" etc. it was decided to grant import licences for the import of permissible varieties. of artsilk yarn upto the percentages specilied. The Scheme empowered the Controller of Imports and Exports to issue a licence upto 66 2/3 per cent. of the export value in the case of Indian "artsilk sarees" and upto 100 per cent in the case of other Indian "artsilk fabrics". M/s Ramchand Jagadish Chand, a firm of exporters relying upon the Scheme exported Indian "artsilk" goods and earned foreign exchange and applied for an import licence equivalent to the value of the goods it had exported. They were, however, not given an import licence for the value of the goods exported. They thereafter filed a writ petition in this Court for an order that the import certificate had been arbitrarily reduced and thereby the fundamental right of the exporter to carry on trade in artsilk was infringed.
18. The Court held in that case that the State had the right to impose control in the larger interest of the general public on imports and to make orders in exercise of the powers conferred by the Imports and Exports (Control) Act providing for imposition of restrictions by permitting import of certain goods only in accordance with the licences or customs permits granted by the Central Government.
In Robertson v. Minister of Pensions ([1949] 1 K.B. 227), Denning, J. observed at p. 231:
"The Crown cannot escape by saying that estoppels 'do not bind the Crown for that doctrine has long been exploded. Nor can the Crown escape by praying in aid the doctrine of executive necessity, that is, the doctrine that the Crown cannot bind itself so. as to fetter its future executive action. That doctrine was propounded by Rowlatt J., in Rederiaktiebolaget Amphitrite v. The King but it was unnecessary for the decision because the statement there was not a promise which was intended to be binding but only an expression of intention. Rowlatt, J., seems to have been influenced by the cases on the right of the Crown to dismiss its servants at pleasure, but those cases must now all be read in the light of the judgment of Lord Atkin in Reilly v. The King [1954] A.C. 176, 179). In my opinion the defence of executive necessity is of limited scope. It only avails the Crown where there is an implied term to that effect or that is the true meaning of the contract."
What I have to consider is whether this was a contract at all. I have not to consider whether there was anything of which complaint might be made outside a Court, whether that is to say what the Government did was morally wrong or arbitrary that would be altogether outside my province."
Rowlatt J, relied in Rederiaktiebolaget Amphitrite v. The King ([1921] 3 K.B. 500) In that case during the First World War certain neutral shipowners obtained an undertaking from the British Government that if the shipowners sent a particular ship to the United Kingdom with a specified cargo, she shall not be detained. On the faith of that undertaking, the owners sent the ship to a British port with that specified cargo. The British Government withdrew their undertaking and refused her clearance. On a petition of right for damages for breach of contract it was held that the Government's undertaking was not enforceable in a Court of law, it not being within the competence of the Crown to make a contract which would have the effect of limiting its power of executive action in the future. Rowlatt, J., observed at p. 503
Gundalapalli Rangamannar Chetty v. Desu Rangiah and others
Chimanram Motilal and another v. Jayantilal Chhaganlal and another, A.I.R. 1939 Bombay 410 1939 Indlaw MUM 155.
Bombay Rent Act, the High Court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below, on a reappraisal of evidence under section 29(2) of the Act as substituted by the Gujarat Act 18 of 1965. This Court reiterated that although the High Court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of C.P.C., yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law. The High Court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
ase of Bhai Chand Ratanshi v. Laxmishanker Tribhavan, [1982]
section 13(2) of Bombay Rent Act
 M/s Kasturbhai Ramchand Panchal & Brothers and Others v. Firm of Mohanlal Nathubhai and Others, AIR 1969 Gujarat 110 1967 Indlaw GUJ 57
Bombay Rent Act and therefore, he expressed the opinion that the High Court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
hiroze Bamanji Desai v. Chandrakant M. Patel & Ors., [1974] 3 SCR 267 1974 Indlaw SC 282
rishnawati v. Hans Raj, [1974] 2 S.C.R. 524 1973 Indlaw SC 208
 Hari Shankar v. Rao Girdhari Lal Chowdhury, [1962] 1 Suppl. SCR. 933 1961 Indlaw SC 157 had to consider section 35(1) of
Mehta Jagjivan Vanechand v. Doshi Vanechand Harakhchand and others, A.I.R. 1972 Gujarat 6 1970 Indlaw GUJ 68. Thakkar, J. of the Gujarat High Court, as the learned Judge then was, held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession. This view is now concluded by the decision of this Court in Madras Bangalore Transport Co. (West) v. Inder Singh and others, [1986] 3 S.C.C. 62 1986 Indlaw SC 748.