Under section 123 of the Customs Act, in such circumstances, the burden of proving that they were not smuggled goods would be on the respondent from whose possession they were seized.
Section 97(1) of the Amending Act reads thus:-  Any amendment made, or any provision inserted in the principal Act by a State Legislature or a High Court before the commencement of this Act shall, except in so far as such amendment or provision is consistent with the provisions of the principal Act as amended by this Act, stand repealed.
The above provision is however subject to sub-section (2) of section 97 of the Amending Act which provides that notwithstanding that the provisions of the Amending Act have come into force or the repeal under sub-section (1) of section 97 of the Amending Act has taken effect, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, the provisions in clauses (a) to (zb) of that sub-section would prevail.
Sub-section (3) of section 97 of the Amending Act provides that save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), the provisions of the principal Act, as amended by the Amending Act, shall apply to every suit proceeding, appeal or application pending at the commencement of the Amending Act or instituted or filed after such commencement, notwithstanding the fact that the right, or cause of action, in pursuance of which such suit, proceeding, appeal or application is instituted or filed, had been acquired or had accrued before such commencement.
Section 122 of the Code empowers the High Courts to make rules regulating the procedure of civil courts subject to their superintendence as well as rules regulating their own procedure.
Section 129 of 19 the Code which is overlapping on section 122 of the Code to some extent confers power on the Chartered High Courts to make rules as to their original civil procedure.
There are three sub-sections in section 97 of the Amending Act.
For purposes of ready reference Rule 72 of Order 21 as it is in the Code and as it was in the State of Uttar Pradesh prior to the commencement of the Amending Act are set out below:"Order 21 Rule 72 as it is in the Code: 72.
Decree-holder not to bid for or buy property without permission.
- (1) No holder of a decree in execution of which property is sold shall, without the express permission of the Court, bid for or purchase the property.
Where decree-holder purchases, amount of decree may be taken as payment.
- (2) Where a decree holder purchases with such permission, the purchase money and the amount due on the decree may, subject to the provisions of Section 73, be set off against one another, and the Court executing the decree shall enter up satisfaction of the decree in whole or in part accordingly.
(3) Where a decree-holder purchases, by himself or through another person, without such permission, the Court may, if it thinks fit, on the application of the judgment-debtor or any other person whose interests are affected by the sale, by order set aside the sale; and the costs of such application and order, and any deficiency of price which may happen on the re-sale and all expense attending it, shall be paid by the decree-holder.
Order 21 Rule 72 as it was in force in the State of Uttar Pradesh prior to the commencement of the Amending Act.
Where a decree-holder purchases the property sold, the purchase money and the amount due on the decree may, subject to the provisions of section 73 be set off against one another, and the Court executing the decree shall enter up satisfaction of the decree in whole or in part accordingly.
"80. No suit shall be instituted against the Government (including the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir) or against a public officer in respect of any act purporting to be done by such public officer in his official capacity, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing has been delivered to, or left at the office of- (a) in the case of a suit against the Central Government, except where it relates to a railway, a Secretary to that Government; (b) in the case of a suit against the Central Government where it relates to a railway, the General Manager of that railway; (c) in the case of a suit against the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the Secretary to that Government or any other officer authorised by that Government in this behalf; (d) in the case of a suit against any other Government, a Secretary to that Government or the Collector of the district;* * * * * and, in the case of a public officer, delivered to him or left at his office, stating the cause of action, the name, description and place of residence of the plaintiff and relief which he claims; and plaint shall contain a statement that such notice has been so delivered or left."
"2(14) "capital asset" means property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected with his business or profession, but does not include--.
45(1) Any profits or gains arising from the transfer of a capital asset effected in the previous year shall, save as otherwise provid- ed in section be chargeable to income-tax under the head Capital gains, and shall be deemed to be the income of the previous year in which the transfer took place.
As regards the first contention, section 2(14) of the Act defines "capital asset" as property of any kind held by an assessee.
The said certificate which was published in Notification No. 43/3/50-Judicial dated March 11, 1950 read as follows: That the said Act shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2) of Article 31, or has contravened the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
Clauses (2) and (6) of Article 31 which are relevant for these cases as they stood at the commencement of the Constitution read as follows:- 31. (1) (2) No property, moveable or immovable, including any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, shall be taken possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorising the taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken possession of or acquired and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given.
(6) Any law of the State enacted not more than eighteen months before the commencement of this Constitution may within three months from such commencement be submitted to the President for his certification; and thereupon, if the President by public notification so certifies, it shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2) of this article or has contravened the provisions of sub- section (2) of section 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act published in the Bihar Gazette said: “For some years past there has been wide spread anti zamindari agitation amongst the cultivators of the province leading to frequent agrarian troubles. These troubles, as is well known, owe their origin to the feeling of dissatisfaction that the tenants have against the landlords owing to the latter's failure to provide for the upkeep of irrigational facilities, to the realisation of abwab, to the enhancement of rents and to ejectment from holdings and other similar causes. The landlord's apathy towards the upkeep of the irrigational facilities has been considerably accentuated recently on account of the large scale commutation of rents in kind into cash rents. Hence this Bill. It is proposed under Government management to make adequate arrangements for saving the cultivators from the harassment to which they are often subjected at present by the amlas of the zamindars, to save them from the ruinous financial drain of litigation for the recovery of arrears of rents and above all to benefit them by providing for irrigation facilities. After making payment for objects specified in the Bill and reserving a reasonable balance for cost of management, the net surplus will be paid over to the proprietors.”
Section 3 to 5 c-f the Act were in Chapter 11 of the Act. Section 3 provided as follows :- "3. (1) The Provincial Government may, by notification declare that the estates or tenures of a proprietor or tenure holder, specified in the notification, shall be placed under the management of the Provincial Government, and on the publication of the said notification, the estates or tenures of such proprietor or tenure-holder shall, so long as the notification remains in force, be deemed to have been placed under the management of the Provincial Government with effect from the date of the commencement of management. (2) The notification under sub-section (1) shall- (a) specify such particulars of the estates or tenures as may be prescribed; (b) specify the period for which the estates or tenures shall be placed under the management of the Provincial Government; and (c) vest the management of such estates or tenures in a person who shall be an officer not below the rank of Deputy Collector (hereinafter called the Manager) (3) The notification under sub-section (1) shall be published in the Official Gazette and a copy of such notification shall be sent by registered post, with an acknowledgment due, to the proprietor of the estates recorded in the general registers of revenue-paying or revenue-free lands maintained under the Land Registration Act, 1876, or in case such estates are not recorded in any such registers, and in the case of tenure-holders, to the proprietor or tenure-holder of the estates or tenures, as the case may be, if the Collector of the district is in possession of a list of Such proprietors or tenure holders together with their addresses (4) The publication and posting of such notification, where such notification is sent by post, in the manner provided in sub-section (3), shall be conclusive evidence of the notice of the declaration to the proprietor or tenure-holder whose estates or tenures are affected by the notification under sub-section (1) and of the service of such notice on the proprietor or tenure-holder 7'
Section 4 of the Act laid down the consequences of the issue of a notification in respect of any estate or tenure.
It provided inter alia that (a) the proprietor or tenure- holder shall cease to have any power of management of his estates or tenures and (b) subject to the provisions of sections 7, 8, 9, 10. 11 and 12, the Manager shall take charge of such estates or tenures together with such buildings, papers and other properties appertaining to the estates or tenures, as in the opinion of the Manager are essential for the proper management of the estates or tenures.
Section 5 of the Act read as follows: "5. The Manager may, by a written order, require the proprietor or tenure-holder or his agents and employees on a date to be specified in such order to produce before him such documents, papers or registers relating to the estates or tenures of such proprietor or tenure-holder or to furnish him with such information as the Manager may deem necessary for the management of the estates or tenures: Provided that the proprietor or tenure-holder shall have A the option to comply with such written order either himself or through authorised agent.
Chapter III of the Act contained the special provisions regarding trust estates or tenures, homesteads and lands used for agricultural and horticultural purposes and certain buildings comprised in estates or tenures placed under the management of the Provincial Government.
Chapter IV of the Act authorised the removal of mortgagees and lessees in possession of an estate or tenure.
Chapter V contained provisions regarding the filing of claims by secured creditors and other persons in possession of the estate or tenure, determination of liabilities and preparation of scheme for their liquidation.
Chapter VI of the Act provided for the filing of claims by creditors other than secured creditors. Chapter VII made provisions for granting protection from sale of certain estates.
Chapter VIII of the Act contained detailed provisions regarding the management of the estates by the Manager. Section 22 of the Act which was in Chapter VIII provided that 'every Manager shall manage the property committed to him diligently and faithfully and shall, in every respect, act to the best of his judgment'.
Chapter IX of the Act provided for an appeal to the order of prescribed authority against the Manager.
Chapter X made provision for the constitution of Estates and Tenures Management Advisory Committee and their functions.
Sections 30 and 31 of the Act which were in Chapter XI of the Act barred the jurisdiction of courts regarding matters referred to therein. They read as under:
"30. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or anything having the force of law, the declaration of the Provincial Government under sub- section (1) of section 3 and the order of the Manager under sub-section (1) of section 13 or where on appeal has been preferred, the order of the appellate authority under section 27, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be final and shall not be questioned in any Court; and so long as the management of the estates and tenures by the Provincial Government continues, it shall not be lawful for any court to pass any order or do anything which may in any way interfere or have the effect of interfering with such management by the Provincial Government.
31. No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie in any court against the Crown or any servant of the Crown or against any person acting under the orders of a servant of the Crown for, or on account of, or in respect of, anything done or purporting to be done in good faith under this Act or in respect of any alleged neglect or omission to perform any duty devolving on the Provincial Government or any of the officers subordinate to it and acting under this Act or in respect of the exercise of, or the failure to exercise, any power conferred by this Act, on the Provincial Government or any officer subordinate to it and acting under this Act, except for the loss or the misapplication occasioned by the wilful default or gross-negligence of any officer of the Provincial Government.
Chapter XII of the Act contained some miscellaneous provisions regarding suits and appeals by or against the proprietor or tenure-holder during the period of management by the Government.
Section 33 in Chapter XIII of the Act provided for relinquishment of management of an estate taken over by the Government and other consequential matters.
The other parts of the Act contained provisions regarding other miscellaneous matters.
Under section 4 (22) of the Bihar and Orissa General Clauses Act, 1917, a thing shall be deemed to be done in 'good faith' where it is in fact done honestly, whether it is done negligently or not.
The Court under sub-rule (2) of Rule 2 can, on good cause shown and upon terms to be fixed by the Court from time to time, at any time before any decree is passed, extend the time fixed for the payment of the amount found or declared due under sub-rule (1) or of the amount adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs, charges, expenses and interest.
Rule 3 of Order 34 provides that when an application is made by the defendant seeking a final decree, the Court has two courses open depending on the defendant making payment in Court of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 2, and not making payment Under sub-rule (1) of Rule 3, a final decree of one kind may be passed in terms thereof if payment is made.
But if no payment is made a final decree of the other kind may be passed in terms of sub-rule (2) of Rule 3.
Sub-rule (3) of Rule 3 enjoins that on the passing of a final decree under sub-rule (2) all liabilities to which the defendant is subject in respect of mortgage or on account of suit shall be deemed to have been 243 discharged.
Under Rule 5, the defendant is given another opportunity to make payment of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4, if such payment. is made on or before the day fixed or at any time before the confirmation of sale in pursuance of the final decree.
Sections 10 and 13 of the Payment of Bonus Act, as they stood at the relevant time, were as follows: Section 10.
PAYMENT OF MINIMUM BONUS- Subject to the provisions of ss 8 and 13 every employer shall be bound to pay to every employee in an accounting year a minimum bonus which shall be four per cent of the salary or wage earned by the employee during the accounting year or forty rupees, whichever is higher, whether there are profits in the accounting year or not:

Provided that where such employee has not completed fifteen years of age at the beginning of the accounting year, the provisions of this section shall have effect in relation to such employee as if for the words 'forty rupees', the words 'twenty five rupees" were substituted.
Section13-PROPORTIONATE REDUCTION OF BONUS IN CERTAIN CASES-Where an employee has not worked for all the working days in any accounting year, the minimum bonus of forty rupees or, as the case may be, of twenty five rupees, per cent, of his salary or wage for the days he has worked in that accounting year shall be proportionately reduced.
In 1988, however, this definition was amended to read as follows:-
(e) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise) made after the 31st day of May 1987, by way of advance or loan to a shareholder, being a person who is the beneficial owner of shares (not being shares entitled to a fixed rate of dividend whether with or without a right to participate in profits) holding not less than ten percent of the voting power, or to any concern in which such shareholder is a member or a partner and in which he has a substantial interest (hereafter in this clause referred to as the said concern), or any payment by any such company on behalf or for the individual benefit, of any such shareholder, to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits'"
Explanation 2. - the expression "accumulated profits", in sub-clauses (a), (b), (d) and (e), shall include all profits of the company up to the date of distribution or payment referred to in those sub-clauses, and in sub-clause (c) shall include all profits of the company up to the date of liquidation, {but shall not, where the liquidation is consequent on the compulsory acquisition of its undertaking by the Government or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government under any law for the time being in force, include any profits of the company prior to three successive previous years immediately preceding the previous year in which such acquisition took place;
Explanation 3. - For the purposes of this clause,-
(a) "concern" means a Hindu undivided family, or a firm or an association of persons or a body of individuals or a company;
(b) a person shall be deemed to have a substantial interest in a concern, other than a company, if he is, at any time during the previous year, beneficially entitled to not less than twenty per cent of the income of such concern;"
11. The Explanatory memorandum to the amendment thus made reads as follows:-
"With the deletion of Section 104 to 109 there was a likelihood of closely held companies not distributing their profits to shareholders by way of dividends but by way of loans or advances so that these are not taxed in the hands of the shareholders. To forestall this manipulation, sub-clause (e) of clause (22) of Section 2 has been suitably amended. Under the existing provisions, payments by way of loans or advance to shareholders having substantial interest in a company to the extent to which the company possesses accumulated profits is treated as dividend. The shareholders having substantial interest are those who have a shareholding carrying not less than 20 per cent voting power as per the provisions of clause (32) of Section 2. The amendment of the definition extends its application to payments made (i) to a shareholder holding not less than 10 per cent of the voting power, or (ii) to a concern in which the shareholder has substantial interest. "Concern" as per the newly inserted Explanation 3 (a) to Section 2 (22) means a HUF or a firm or an association of persons or a body of individuals or a company. A shareholder having a substantial interest in a concern as per part (b) of Explanation 3 is deemed to be one who is beneficially entitled to not less than 20 per cent of the income of such concern.
10.3. The new provisions would, therefore, be applicable in a case where a shareholder has 10 per cent or more of the equity capital. Further, deemed dividend would be taxed in the hands of a concern where all the following conditions are satisfied:-
(i) where the company makes the payment by way of loans or advances to a concern.;
(ii) where a member or a partner of the concern holds 10 per cent of the voting power in the company; and
(iii) where the member or partner of the concern is also beneficially entitled to 20 per cent of the income of such concern.
With a view to avoid the hardship in cases where advances or loans have already been given, the new provisions have been made applicable only in cases where loans or advances are given after 31st May, 1987."
These amendments will apply in relation to assessment year 1988-89 and subsequent years."
The Income Tax Act, 1922 contained the definition of "dividend" which reads as follows:-
"2. (6A) 'dividend' includes- ...
(e) any payment by a company, not being a company, in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any such company on behalf or for the individual benefit of a shareholder, to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits;"
By readiness may be meant the capacity of the plaintiff to perform the contract which includes his financial position to pay the purchase price. For determining his willingness to perform his part of the contract, the conduct has to be properly scrutinised.
 distinction between readiness to perform the contract and willingness to perform the contract.
 distinction between readiness to perform the contract and willingness to perform the contract.
or answering the question, it would be necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of the Act and the Notifications, which are as under:
As mentioned above, 'commercial or industrial construction service' is a taxable service enumerated under Section 65(105) (zzq) of the Act. Section 65(25b) of the Act defines construction or industrial construction service to mean:
"(a) construction of a new building or a civil structure or a part thereof; or
(b) construction of pipeline or conduit; or
(c) completion and finishing services such as glazing, plastering, painting, floor and wall tiling, wall covering and wall papering, wood and meal joinery and carpentry, fencing and railing, construction of swimming pools, acoustic applications or fittings and other similar services, in relation to building or civil structure; or
(d) repair, alteration, renovation or restoration of, or similar services in relation to, building or civil structure, pipeline or conduit, which is-
(i) used, or to be used, primarily for; or
(ii) occupied, or to be occupied, primarily with; or
(iii) engaged, or to be engaged, primarily in, commerce or industry, or work intended for commerce or industry, but does not include such services provided in respect of roads, airports, railways, transport terminals, bridges, tunnels and dams;"
7. Section 67 of the Act deals with valuation of taxable services. This Section was amended w.e.f. April 18, 2006. Unamended provision reads as under:
"67. Valuation of taxable services for charging service tax.-For the purposes of this Chapter, the value of any taxable service shall be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him.
Explanation 1.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the value of a taxable service, as the case may be, includes,-
(a) the aggregate of commission or brokerage charged by a broker on the sale or purchase of securities including the commission or brokerage paid by the stock-broker to any sub-broker;
(b) the adjustments made by the telegraph authority from any deposits made by the subscriber at the time of application for telephone connection or pager or facsimile or telegraph or telex or for leased circuit;
(c) the amount of premium charged by the insurer from the policy holder;
(d) the commission received by the air travel agent from the airline;
(e) the commission, fee or any other sum received by an actuary, or intermediary or insurance intermediary or insurance agent from the insurer;
(f) the reimbursement received by the authorised service station from manufacturer for carrying out any service of any motor car, light motor vehicle or two wheeled motor vehicle manufactured by such manufacturer; and
(g) the commission or any amount received by the rail travel agent from the Railways or the customer, but does not include-
(i) initial deposit made by the subscriber at the time of application for telephone connection or pager or facsimile (FAX) or telegraph or telex or for leased circuit;
(ii) the cost of unexposed photography film, unrecorded magnetic tape or such other storage devices, if any, sold to the client during the course of providing the service;
(iii) the cost of parts or accessories, or consumable such as lubricants and coolants, if any, sold to the customer during the course of service or repair of motor cars, light motor vehicle or two wheeled motor vehicles;
(iv) the airfare collected by air travel agent in respect of service provided by him;
(v) the rail fare collected by rail travel agent in respect of service provided by him;
(vi) the cost of parts or other material, if any, sold to the customer during the course of providing maintenance or repair service;
(vii) the cost of parts or other material, if any, sold to the customer during the course of providing erection, commissioning or installation service; and
(viii) interest on loans.
Explanation 2.-Where the gross amount charged by a service provider is inclusive of service tax payable, the value of taxable service shall be such amount as with the addition of tax payable, is equal to the gross amount charged.
Explanation 3.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service."
(i) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration in money, be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him;
(ii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration not wholly or partly consisting of money, be such amount in money as, with the addition of service tax charged, is equivalent to the consideration;
(iii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration which is not ascertainable, bet he amount as may be determined in the prescribed manner.
(2) Where the gross amount charged by a service provider, for the service provided or to be provided is inclusive of service tax payable, the value of such taxable service shall be such amount as, with the addition of tax payable, is equal to the gross amount charged.
(3) The gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the value shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section.
(a) "consideration" includes any amount that is payable for the taxable services provided or to be provided;
(b)"money" includes any currency, cheque, promissory note, letter of credit, draft, pay order, travellers cheque, money order, postal remittance and other similar instruments but does not include currency that is held for its numismatic value;
(c) "gross amount charges" includes payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and [book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called 'suspense account' or by any other name, in the books of account of a person liable to pay service tax, where the transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise.]"
8. After the amendment, Section 67 of the Act is as follows:
"Section 67. Valuation of taxable services for charging service tax
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, service tax chargeable on any taxable service with reference to its value shall,-
(ii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration not wholly or partly consisting of money, be such amount in money, with the addition of service tax charged, is equivalent to the consideration;
(iii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration which is not ascertainable, be the amount as may be determined in the prescribed manner.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the value shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed
Explanation.-For the purposes of this section,- [(a) "consideration" includes-
(i) any amount that is payable for the taxable services provided or to be provided;
(ii) any reimbursable expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider and charged, in the course of providing or agreeing to provide a taxable service, except in such circumstances, and subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed;
(iii) any amount retained by the lottery distributor or selling agent from gross sale amount of lottery ticket in addition to the fee or commission, if any, or, as the case may be, the discount received, that is to say, the difference in the face value of lottery ticket and the price at which the distributor or selling agent gets such ticket.]
(c) "gross amount charged" includes payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and 2[book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called "Suspense account" or by any other name, in the books of account of a person liable to pay service tax, where the transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise.]"
9. Exemption Notifications:
(a) Notification No. 12/2003-ST dated June 26, 2003, issued by the Central Government, exercising powers under Section 93(1) of the Act exempted the value of goods and materials sold by a service provider to a recipient of service from the tax leviable thereon, subject to documentary proof specifically indicating the value of such goods and material. This notification was specified to come into force w.e.f. July 01, 2013.
(b) By Notification No. 15/2004-ST dated September 10, 2004, a further exemption was granted in respect of taxable service provided by a commercial concern to any person in relation to construction service. This Notification reads:
"In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994), the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts the taxable service provided by a commercial concern to any person, in relation to construction service, from so much of the service tax leviable thereon under Section 66 of the said Act, as is in excess of the service tax calculated on a value which is equivalent to thirty-three per cent of the gross amount charged from any person by such commercial concern for providing the said taxable service"
Provided that this exemption shall not apply in such cases where-
(i) the credit of duty paid on inputs or capital goods has been taken under the provisions of the Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004; or
(ii) the commercial concern has availed the benefit under the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 12/2003-Service Tax, dated the 20th June, 2003 [G.S.R. 503(E), dated the 20th June, 2003]."
(c) Notification No. 4/2005-ST was issued on March 01, 2005, introducing an Explanation at the end of Notification No. 15/2004- ST. This Explanation reads:
"Explanation. - For the purposes of this notification, the "gross amount charged" shall include the value of goods and materials supplied or provided or used by the provider of the construction service for providing such service."
ouncil under s. 33 read with s. 19A, Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and therefore violate the fundamental right of the petitioner guaranteed u/art. 15 of the Constitution. It is contended that the Regulations are law and are enforceable in a court, and that if they are to prevail the only reservation permissible is that in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
bringing the case within Art. 15(4) of the Constitution.
The sales are contained which may be quoted:
" In relation to the purchases made by the Petitioner Company as stated above no appreciable sales of shares were made during the period 29th July 1924 to 30th June 1942, the sales made in the year ended 30th June 1929 of the value of Rs. 1,29,333 included shares of the value of 'Rs. 45,000 in the Loyal Mills Ltd., sold to the members of the staff and shares of the value of Rs. 83,833 representing sterling investments handed over to the creditors of the Petitioner Company in part repayment of the loan taken from them in the year ended 30th June 1931, shares of the value of Rs. 7,48,356 were handed over to the creditors in payment of the loan granted by them. From the year ended 30th June 1943 E. D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd., started relinquishing the managing agencies of the various Mills under their agency and the shares held by the Petitioner Company in the Sassoon Group of Mills were handed over to the respective purchasers of the Mills agencies. "This gives the history of the acquisition and disposal of shares and also how the various transactions were entered into and why. Prior to 1940 the assessee company made a claim every year for being treated as a dealer in investments and properties but this contention was consistently repelled and up to the assessment year 1939- 40 the assessee company was assessed on the basis of being an investor but it appears that for the assessment year 1940-41 and the two following years 1941-42 and 1942-43 the Department accepting the plea of the assessee company treated it as a dealer in shares, securities and immovable properties and assessed it on that basis. For these years and for the assessment year 1943-44 the company made its Return on that basis. But after the Return had been filed for the year 1943-44 the assessee company withdrew its Return and filed a revised Return on March 7, 1944, contending that it was not a dealer but merely an investor. Along with the Return it filed a letter dated March 6, 1944, in which inter alia it stated:
"The Return of Total Income which was submitted with the Company's letter of 25th May 1943 was prepared in conformity with the ruling of the Income. tax Officer in the 1940-41 assessment that the company was to be assessed as a dealer in investments. Since that Return was submitted the Central Board of Revenue has decided that the Company is an Investment Holding Company and accordingly an amended Return of Total Income u/s. 22 (1) of the Indian Income-tax Act is submitted herewith on which the assessment for 1943- 44 may be based, as on this particular question the company obviously cannot have one status for Excess Profits Tax and another for Income-tax. "
 of partnership specifying the individual shares of the partners, for registration for the purposes of this Act and of any other enactment for the time being in force relating to income-tax or su-tax.
(2) The application shall be made by such son or sons, and at such times and shall contain such particulars and shall be in such form, and be verified in such manner, as may be prescribed; and it shall be dealt with by. the Income-tax Officer in such manner as may be prescribed.
8.  In exercise of the powers conferred by s. 59 of the Act, the Central Board of Revenue made the following rules:
9. Rule 2. Any firm constituted under an instrument of partnership specifying the individual shares of the partners may, under the provisions of Section 26A of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (hereinafter in, these rules referred to as the Act), register with the Income-tax Officer, the particulars contained in the said Instrument on application made in this behalf.
10.  Such application shall be given by all the partners (not being minors) personally and shall be made------
(a) before the income of the firm is assessed for any year u/s. 23 of the Act, or Rule 3. The application referred to in Rule 2 shall be made in the form annexed to this rule and shall be accompanied by the original Instrument of Partnership under which the firm is constituted, together with a copy thereof;
FORM I
11. For of Application for Registration of a Firm tinder section 26A of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 Rule 4. If, on receipt of the application referred to in Rule 3, the Income-tax Officer is satisfied that there is or was a firm in existence constituted is shown in the instrument of partnership and that the application has been properly made, lie shall enter in writing at the foot of the instrument or certified copy, as the case may be, a certificate in the following form, namely:--.
12. Rule 6B. In the event of the Income-tax Officer be in satisfied that the certificate granted under Rule 4, or under Rule 6A, has been obtained without there being a genuine firm in existence, he may cancel the certificate so granted.
13.  A combined effect of s. 26A of the Act and the rules made thereunder is that if the application made by a firm gives the necessary particulars prescribed by the rules, the Income-tax Officer cannot reject it, if there is a firm in existence as shown in the instrument of partnership. A firm may be said to be not in existence if it is a bogus or not a genuine one, or if in law the constitution of the partnership is void. The jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer is, therefore, confined to the ascertain I ing of two facts, namely, (i) whether the application for registration is in conformity with the rules made under the Act, and (ii) whether the firm shown in the document presented for registration is a bogus one or has no legal existence. Further, the discretion conferred on him under s. 26A is a judicial one and he cannot refuse to register a firm on mere speculation. but he shall base his conclusion on relevant evidence.
14.  What are the facts in the present case? The partnership deed is dated April 1, 1950. In the document five sons are shown as its partners. The name of the firm is given, the objects of the partnership business are described, the duration of the business is prescribed and the capital fixed is divided between them in equal share. Cl. 16 of the Partnership deed, on which the Tribunal relied, reads:
"This firm shall collect a commission of half an anna per gross on the entire production of the match factories of the partners, respectively, the Brilliant Match Works, Manoranjitha Match Works, Pioneer Match Works, Shenbagam Match Works and Gnanam Match Works produced from 1st April 1950 whether sales were effected through this firm or not and a further commission of half an anna per gross on the sales effected through this firm. This commission will be collected on all kinds of matches produced from the above said factories. The commission of half an anna per gross on the entire production of these factories accrued due at the end of every month shall be debited to the respective factories under advice to them."
15. Cls. 22 and 23 which throw further light on the question raised read:
16. Cl. 22. The business of this firm shall have and has no connection with the match manufacturing business carried on now by the partners separately or in partnership with others.
cl. 23. Any loss to the firm by way of fire accident or by any other cause during the course of the business of the firm, notwithstanding the fact that the loss might have arisen on the sale of or transaction relating to the match manufacturing concerns of the partners to this deed, shall be borne by this firm and shall be equally divided between the partners to this deed.
fter referring to the long history of liquor licensing and after considering the various provisions of the Punjab Excise Act 1914 and the Rules framed there under,
226 of the Constitution
"executive necessity"
1) The Central Government may by order published in the Official Gazette, make provisions for prohibiting, restricting or otherwise controlling in all cases or in specified classes of cases, and subject to such exceptions if any, as may be made by or under the order :--
(a) The import, export, carriage coastwise or shipment as ships stores of goods of any specified description;
(b) the bringing into any port or place in India of goods of any specified description intended to be taken out of India without being removed from the ship or conveyance in which they are being carried.
(2)....................
(3).....................
By s. 4 the orders made under r. 84 of the Defence of India Rules, 1939, or under that rule as continued in force by the Emergency Provisions (Continuance) Ordinance, 1946, and in force immediately before the commencement of the Act were, insofar as they were not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, to continue to remain in force and to be deemed to have been made under the Act. "
4. In exercise of the powers conferred on the Central Government by s. 3, the Central Government issued the Imports (Control) Order, 1955. By paragraph-3 of the Order it was enacted that:
"(1) Save as otherwise provided in this Order, no person shall import any goods of the description specified in Schedule I, except under, and in accordance with, a licence or a customs clearance permit granted by the Central Government or by any officer specified in
(2) If, in any case, it is found that the goods imported under a licence do not conform to the description given in the licence or were shipped prior to the date of issue of the licence under which they are claimed to have been imported, then, without prejudice to any action that may be taken against the licence under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), in respect of the said importation, the licence may be treated as having been utilised for importing the said goods."
5. The Central Government also issued periodical orders which were published in biannual official publications setting out the policy governing the grant of import and export licences. By paragraph 52 of the notification published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated December 29, 1954, it was declared that in certain items there was "direct and intimate" inter-relationship between imports and exports, and since the ability to export some of those manufactured goods depended largely on the facility with which the exporter or the manufacturer could procure the basic raw materials required in the manufacture, a scheme had been devised with a view to promote export of such goods for the grant of special import licences to replace the imported raw material content of the exported product, and to provide an inducement for larger exports. The details of the Scheme were set out in Appendix-23 to the Notification. The Scheme covered a number of commodities of which export was permitted. From time to time this Appendix was modified and fresh schemes were issued in respect of new commodities.
6. On October 10, 1962, the Government of India promulgated the Export Promotion Scheme for woollen textiles and woollen goods. Clause 2 of that Scheme provided, insofar as it is material:
"It has been decided that manufacturers--exporters and merchants exporters of the above woollen textiles and woollen goods will be entitled to import raw materials, namely, raw wool, wool tops, shoddy, man-made fibres and tops, permissible types of dyes and chemicals and machinery and machinery parts and spare parts for woollen industry for a total amount equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value of the exports."
Clause 4 provided:
"Only such exporters who satisfy the Textile Commissioner that they are interested in export (either by past performance or by showing proof of action taken to obtain firm order etc.) will be registered by the Textile Commissioner."
7. Clause 6 imposed certain obligations upon the registered exporters, such as adherence to the code of conduct as and when evolved; adoption of the standard contract form with suitable clauses for arbitration and settlement of disputes abiding by the decision of the Textile Commissioner in the matter of dispute between the exporter and his foreign customers forwarding figures of exports of woollen goods made by him every month to the Textile Commissioner and abiding by such quality control and pre-shipment inspection procedures as may be evolved Clause 7 provided for the application for grant of import licences against actual exports effected on a monthly or on a quarterly basis. Clause 9 provided:
"After scrutiny of the applications, the Textile Commissioner shall issue an entitlement certificate indicating the items and value for which licence should i ssued to the applicant. On receipt of the application and entitlement certificate, the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay, shall issue the license."
Clause 10 provided:
"In case where the Textile Commissioner considers that the declared value of the goods exported is higher than the real value of the goods, the matter may be investigated further by calling for further evidence, e.g. purchase vouchers and any other corroborative evidence to facilitate scrutiny. It shall be the duty of the registered exporter to furnish such evidence as is called for in this connection. On the basis of his enquiry, the Textile Commissioner may assess the correct value of the goods exported and issue an entitlement certificate on the basis of such assessed value."
ection 4 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, it says
"Partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all"
(Emphasis supplied)
10.  Section 6 of the said Act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm, or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm, regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties, as shown by all relevant facts taken together. The following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership, (1) there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned, (2) the agreement must be to share profits of business; and (3) the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
e scope and ambit of section 29(2) of the Rent Act. To decide this, facts must be referred to.
Before we proceed further, it would be necessary to take note of the definition of 'input service' which was prevailing at the relevant period i.e. prior to April 1, 2008. This definition contained in Section 2(l) of the Rules, 2004 reads as under:
"Input Service" means any service-
(i) Used by a provider of taxable service for providing an output service; or
(ii) Used by the manufacturer, whether directly or indirectly, in or in relation to the manufacture of final products and clearance of final products from the place of removal, and includes services used in relation to setting up, modernization, renovation or repairs of a factory, premises of provider of output service or an office relating to such factory or premises, advertisement or sales promotion, market research, storage upto the place of removal, procurement of inputs, activities relating to business, such as accounting, auditing, financing, recruitment and quality control, coaching and training, computer networking, credit rating, share registry, and security, inward transportation of inputs or capital goods and outward transportation from the place of removal;
The phrase 'place of removal' is defined under Section 4 of the Central Excise Act, 1944. It states that- 'place of removal' means,-
(i) a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods;
(ii) a warehouse or any other place or premises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be stored without payment of duty;
(iii) a depot, premises of a consignment agent or any other place or premises from where the excisable goods are to be sold after their clearance from the factory; from where such goods are removed."
5. We may also refer to Circular No. 97/8/2007-ST dated August 23, 2007 issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) (hereinafter referred to as the 'Board') as per which the definition of 'input service' was clarified and the Circular also provided the conditions which are to be satisfied to cover the case within 'place of removal'. The three conditions contained in the circular are (i) regarding ownership of the goods till the delivery of the goods at the purchaser's door step; (ii) seller bearing the risk of or loss or damage to the goods during transit to the destination and; (iii) freight charges to be integral part of the price of the goods.
6. As mentioned above, in these cases, the assessees are claiming Cenvat Credit in respect of service tax paid on outward transportation from their factory to the premises of customers. As per the Department, outward transportation engaged for removal of goods from factory to customer premises cannot be considered as an input service since premises of customer is not recognized as a place of removal under the Central Excise Act. To put it differently, the Department contends that the outward transportation provided beyond the place of removal is not eligible for input service for availing Cenvat Credit.
input service' as defined in Rule 2(l) of the Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Rules, 2004'),